Video: 001 - Intro To Options Trading Put Options 07 07 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm good. I must have done something right. They let me back for a second episode. So listen, this is going to go on into into fruition. I mean, hopefully this is a couple of year process and you'll you'll grow from the very beginning, which you are right now. With the you know, some information that you've gotten from school, some information that you've probably got from friends, people here at tasty trade in and dough and what you'll learn in in real application. Placing trades. So we're going to start real slow. Yesterday we talked about we did calls. We did calls. And we wanted to get calls and puts a matter of fact, a slide that we showed at the end of the day showed, you know, calls by a call that's bullish. So I want to talk about puts today. And I want to also, you know, reiterate and go back to what we learned yesterday. So I made one more card for you today. Let's take a look at that. Because exactly what we talked about yesterday. It's more of the classic or clinical discussion on what we had buying a call bullish selling a call bearish today. We want to talk about what we're going to do. We want to talk about buying a put which would be bearish and selling a put which would be bullish. Let's go to the dough platform and take a look at that's the card from yesterday. Very, very simple. We talked a little bit about what a call is. Do you remember what we talked about what a call is? It's the right to buy. If you buy a call, it's the right to buy what? 100 shares of the stock. 100 shares of stock. Exactly. Exactly. And we're giving somebody else the option to buy those shares of stock from us at a predetermined price. Correct. It's exactly like what's it exactly like? Almost like a contract that you would have with your insurance company like for a car or something like that. I know that to touchy subject with you because your car got stolen this weekend, which is a true story, right? It's kind of funny. So you owned your car, right? Yes. But you gave, you paid somebody, you paid somebody money to you got a contract back. And with that contract, they said that they would replace your car's value if something bad were to happen to your car. Now, something bad did happen to your car. So that would be like buying a call. You have the right, but not the obligation to exercise that contract. Let's go to the dope platform for a second. We'll take a look at what we're talking about. I know yesterday we were talking about Apple. This will be the homepage that you'll look at all the time when you see your own. We'll click on the trade page. And we already filled in Apple, but you would have to fill in Apple stock. You could put anyone you wanted. We were looking at a call that was trading around $100 because that's how much money we had to spend. We were bullish on the stock. Was your assumption. You always have to have an assumption. Calls are on the left. We were buying 100 shares of we were buying a contract. You really weren't buying any stock. And our 135 strike price actually went up. So I wouldn't even be able to afford it today. Today you would not be able to afford it. Or if you bought it yesterday, you'd be making $5 for $5. But that contract is the right to buy the stock at what price at the strike that I'm buying it at at the 135. 135, but your cost basis would be today would be the 104 is what I'm paying today. So it'd be $104 to buy that. Correct. But if you bought that option for $100 yesterday, let's just say for argument six, you bought it at $1. Your break even price, your cost basis for Apple would be. It would be the price of the strike price plus whatever I paid for it. So if it was yesterday, it'd be $136 today. You know, 136 and 4 cents with the stock trading at 125. But it only cost you $100 to control that contract. Control 100 shares of stock. One contract, one option contract. Controls 100 shares of stock. We discussed yesterday if you had $100 or $125, you could buy one share of Apple. That's leverage. So you got calls on the left. Buy a call. I want the stock to go higher. You kind of jumped the gun a little bit. If I sell a call, you could argue that you want the stock to go lower and you would be correct. You also would argue that you'd have to stay the same. Well, you're selling premium just like your, let's go back to your car example for a moment. You've been driving your 25 years old. So you've been driving for seven years. Let's just say for seven years, you've been buying your own insurance. So for seven years, you've been buying that contract from the insurance company that you never exercised. So all those years of premiums that you paid, you never got to collect on. Now one bad thing happens and you get to collect on it. That's very similar to how options work. Especially when you're buying an option that's out of the money, stocks at 125, you're buying an option that doesn't make any money at expiration until the stock gets to over 136. That's a big move. That being said, let's just talk about puts for a moment. Put to the mirror image, the opposite of calls. So if I buy a call, that's bullish. If I buy a put, is that going to be bullish or bearish? Exactly. Because you're ensuring yourself in case this stock goes up. In case it goes down. If I buy a put, let's just talk about buying for a moment. Because I think when you're a new trader, it's easier to grasp the buy side. If I buy a call, I want the stock to go up. If I buy a put, I want the stock to go down. Now, a lot of individuals, millennials and my mom, who's in her 80s, doesn't understand that you could buy something and still benefit by going lower. That's why everybody who invests in the market or your own daughter, my own daughter, your sister, who first got a first 401k, was like, okay, so what do I invest in that's going to go up? Market has two sides. You can even argue it has three sides. It can go up, down, or stay sideways. There's ways to benefit in all market conditions. That's what we're going to try to learn over the next year or two that it takes us. But let's talk about puts for a second. So if we're going to buy a put and we had that same $100 on the dough platform, the puts are on the right hand side. What put would you be able to buy or closest to buy? The 110 would be the closest to the neck. The 110 looks like it's trading for around 50 or 50. The next one's at 111 so that'd be too expensive. The 115 is at 111. The 115 is at 111 dollars. We'll take the liberty of being able to round that you have 110 dollars or 112 dollars to buy that. So you'd be able to buy the right to benefit if the stock goes below what price at expiration? Well, if I'm paying the 111 for it, if it goes below the 114 or 113.89, then I would be covered. Exactly. You're covered down to and then have no risk below 113.89. Let's just say you paid a dollar for it. 114 and below, you would have no risk. Now, that's it. At first thought, the stocks 125, if I wanted to benefit from a down move in the stock, I can invest as a little as $100 and benefit from the stock going lower. So the call we benefited from the stock going higher, the put we benefited from the stock going lower. Buy a call I want the stock to go. Buy a put. You want the stock to go down. So think about it. With your own type of contract, you could buy both those contracts, spend $200. And if the stock goes a lot higher, you benefit. If the stock goes a lot lower, you benefit. How do you lose? It stays where it is. It stays exactly where it is because there's time premium. How much time premium are you buying? What's the expiration to August? How many days? To August. It looks like it's 21 of 45 days. So when you buy that option, you're buying that option, that contract for 45 days. All right. So let's wrap it up for a quick moment here. What did we learn from yesterday? When you're buying a call, you're buying a call option. It's the contract that gives you the right, but not the obligation to buy a stock at a specific price within a specific time frame. That time frame that we discussed today was 45 days. The price that we talked about on the call was 135. The put is the mirror opposite. The put allows you to benefit when the stock goes lower, meaning you get to benefit as the stock goes lower. You can benefit from a market on both sides higher or lower. So tomorrow we'll talk about how much it would cost you to sell those options. All right. Sounds good. What do we normally say after this? We always say who's coming up next? Tim Knight is coming up next. Peace. Peace.
Video: 002 - Price Graph Mind The Time Frame 07 09 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I know you did. How about you, Nick? Nick? Nick, we're back. Where do I start? Back to back. Back to back. How are you? Good. How was your night last night? It was good. It was tough. I had some tough homework, and I couldn't figure out what was your homework. My homework was to get a stock that I was bullish on and a stock that I was bearish on. 15,000 stocks to choose from. We have software that basically does most of the work for you. I gave you the criteria and set up and you had a hard time finding a couple of stocks. I, it was, it was. I mean, the earning time is coming up. So it was really hard for me to find one that didn't have earnings within the next 45 days. That was really the hardest thing to find. I, VR stocks, I mean, I was able to find those, but something that didn't have any. Hi, I, VR, high implied volatility rank that we always look for. Yeah. Good. So, especially one that I was had a bullish, or a bearish idea on. I found one for bullish. So you're a permable. I'm a permable. Really? Okay. Maybe we didn't know it. Maybe we didn't know it, but we called this Bav versus Bav for other reasons. But maybe it's because I'm typically a permabar, or at least when markets are at all time highs, which they are now, I'm typically a lot more bearish than when markets are at lows or have made a big move down. Then I kind of get bullish. I kind of go both ways, but I'm really a permabar more than anything else. I love to sell. If I've got my palms out and I'm selling, it's what I'm most comfortable. But you're thinking that you're a permable. How many trades have you made in your entire life? Zero. So how do you know what you are? I haven't picked a side yet. No, no, no, it's good. And you don't want you to pick a side. I mean, truth be told, again, on the show that we do all day for almost five hours a day, markets have been going up for the most part. So I'm a contrarian. I like to sell when everybody wants to buy. I like to buy when everybody else likes to sell. So what I want to do here and throughout the show is, I want to stay as neutral as possible and make you grow to your own comfort just so that everybody out there can grow to their own comfort. But you also have to have some sort of market assumptions. So to say that you're a bullish trader, quote unquote, bulls trader, or even a bearish trader, is way too early when you haven't made a trade. So you have no idea what you are, or what you're going to become, or how you're going to like to trade. You know, everybody develops a different style. Tom Saazoff and myself have worked together for almost 30 years doing the same type of business, same type of trades. We're typically on the same sides of the market, but I might do a different strategy than he does. I don't want to risk as much capital as he does. I want to risk more capital as he does. I'd rather have a higher probability of success trade than a 50-50 shot trade that he might put on. So that's what happens in a civil partnership. Is there a lot to that? Well, if you watch our show, it's not so civil sometimes, but yes, okay. So you had a homework assignment. I digress. You had a homework assignment. We were looking for a bullish stock and a bearish stock. Well, what did you come up with? And how did you come up with the process? So the stock that I chose to be bullish on was Baba. Okay, why? And the reason I picked that was that, I mean, it's relatively... Could have charted up of Baba if you don't mind. You don't have to, Nick, let's have the team do it for a moment. Good. It's at a relative low point. I think it was about $4 or $5 above its lowest point that it's been at. And you know, it obviously was one of those stocks that opened and was kind of on fire when it came out. And so... So this is a 52-week chart above. And again, it's just for demonstration purposes. I don't look any technicals, or if there's more green, or more red, or anything else like that. I just look at it for price. So I'm going to look at it like a new trader like you. So you said it's relatively at a low price. What time frame did you look at? Well, the 52 weeks, I mean, since... Well, that's 52 weeks, but how do you judge something as high-low? So here's what I'm saying. Baba's not the greatest example, but if you were to tell me, you should say that Baba's at an all-time low, because for 52 weeks, it really hasn't been any lower. Yeah, the blotting low. So it's not relatively low. It's at an all-time low, but it only has four months worth of data. If we were looking at another stock like Apple, or something like that, put a Apple for a moment. And again, I just like to go to Apple, because it's widely held, and people understand what the stock is. So here in Apple, if I was to show you a 52 week graph of Apple, you would say, high-end low-end, which end? High-end. High-end, okay. Now let's change that graph to a 30-day graph. Okay, now is it at a high-end or a low-end? Low-end? Okay, so how can a stock... The stock, be at the high-end or the low-end? My point that I'm making here, just bear with me for a moment, because we're trying to learn. And I love the pushback. Like I think the audience wants you to push back, and I want you to push back, because this is the only way that you're going to be able to learn, or at least not even learn. That's a bad term. It's the only way that you're going to get to formulate your own opinion is if you have something else to look at besides your own opinion, because your own opinion is very public and new. You've never made your first trade. So give me the benefit of the doubt for a moment, and let's look here. How can a stock be at the high-end of its range and the low-end of its range at the same time? This is why... It's a tough question. This is why I hate to look at charts for anything other than price, and price for where something's been. Now for me... That's a change, price change. And price change, yeah, like day to day, or... You brought a Baba. I don't trade Baba a lot, but it's been in the news, so I kinda know where it's been and where it's going. That other stock that you mentioned yesterday, P-R-A. P-R-A-A. I didn't see a chart of P-R-A-A. I would have no idea where it's been or where it's going. That doesn't where it's been and where it is. That has no bearing on where it's going to go. The only thing I can judge it by were the things that I gave you yesterday, and we'll recap them in a minute. Okay, so we just proved that looking... It depends on what time frame you look at, gives you what your opinion is on high end to low end. So I gotta throw that out. Like I can't use that. Now we're gonna live in a 40... Well, you tell me. I told you when we were gonna open a trade, what was the optimal time? Like how much time till expiration do we typically look at? Do you remember? Yeah, it was 40 to 45 days. Around 45 days. Okay, so to give myself a little bit of room, the three to six months, that's about as much time as I'm gonna look at it as stock. Does that make sense? If you're gonna look at a graph. If I'm gonna look at a graph, just to get a view. So let's just keep the 52 week the way we have it. But really, I'm only gonna look at the last six months or so. And you've got, was it have it July, August September. That has a full year, right? Is that a full year? Yeah, 52 weeks. Okay, so I'm only gonna look at like the last half of the graph. Does that make sense? So if I was looking at Apple, I would say to myself, you know what, apples, what? In the last six months, the red box. I mean, in the middle. Yeah, it's mid range. Okay, so then I'd have to look at the applied volatility. The applied volatility is IV rank. 51. Yeah, 51 up on top there. You can put a circle around the feet if you don't mind, or it arrows perfect. All right, 51%. But we know that Apple has earnings coming, so Apple gets thrown out, can't make the trade. We could even pull up the six month IVR that Doe uses as well. You could? On there. I mean, if it sure is there a correlation there? I mean, if you're looking at six months worth of stock movement, is a six month IVR, something that you would... It is. And I have no problem using it, as long as you do it all the time. Okay. Okay, so like I have no problem with you looking at a one month IVR. I don't think it's enough time. But as long as you use it all the time, stay consistent, then I'm okay with it. I like 52 weeks. Some people argue that six months is better. It's all your personal preference. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay, short a period of time gives you a little bit less of... It gives you more of a... Like we just looked at the stock a moment ago. From one year, gave you a lot of data points on the chart. Six months gave you a little bit less. One week, a one month is gonna give you a lot less. And I think six months is kind of like a happy medium. So if you were doing like a longer term trade, if you put on a trade that's, let's say, has 120 days or 110 days, which you use... Stop. What's your optimal time to put on a trade? 40 to 45 days. So why are we gonna talk about something we're never gonna do? It's true. Makes sense? Okay, so give me one of the stocks that you said you couldn't find. I couldn't do so. So I'm a little bit upset. So I'd have to just like, remember, yes, that we talked about... Sitting you out of a football game... Yeah. How many games a year did we play? Hold on a sec. I never did that. Well, you graduated in four years, so you must have done something well in college. So we only played around 10 football games a year, eight to 10 football games. Something like that. And you had to sit out one, because you didn't do one of your homework assignments or get something done right. So the first day, you didn't do your homework. 15,000 stocks. I showed you exactly what... Okay. I couldn't find a stock stock. I had an ETF that I... Okay. We'll live with that. It's like doing your homework, but not really. Yeah, like halfway. Like halfway. You just like... So what were you bullish on? So I was bullish on IWM. IWM, you were bullish. Can I ask why? It doesn't matter, because there's no reason. Same thing with taking a look at the chart and just deciding that, you know, it was in the last year, it's at a high point. And... So you think it's gonna go higher? No, to go bearish is go down. That was a bearish. Oh, it was your bearish play. I thought you said bullish. Oh, I apologize. I mean, bullish was Baba. Oh, your bullish was Baba, and your bearish was IWM. Yeah. You know what? I don't mind it so much as... Because see, I'm a contrarian, right? So you got Baba on the low end. You've got IWM on the high end. For me, that fits. Now, that's not the reason why I would want you to make the trade or not. But it fits my logic. Like, to me, I'm selling something that's high. I'm not selling the low. And I'm buying something that's low. I'm not buying the high. Yeah. Most public does it exactly the opposite, the same way that you walked into this room. The insurance idea was that it's, you know, if you have a stock at $100, you, you know, you wanna buy that insurance so that if it goes down, you hedge that loss. 100%. So my goal on the show was... When we did back to cool with Katie, last person I did the show with, we had somebody else doing most of the trades for us, meaning they would run that we call the driver and make the trades. My goal with you is I wanna watch you as a new trader, stumble along on the platform, make the mistakes, so that you can learn how to use the platform really, really well. So you said, and we're running out of time, you said that you want to be long on Baba and short on IWM. Okay, so tomorrow, first thing, as soon as we get in here, that's the trades that you're gonna make. And I'll show you how you're gonna make them. Let's try to wrap up everything that we just learned here or we have learned over the last couple of days and I've got another homework assignment for you. All right, so the first thing that we were looking at, we really didn't get to it was selling premium. I want you to sell premium. And if you're bullish on Baba, I want you to sell a put. And if you're bearish on IWM, I want you to sell a call. The things that we look at are liquidity. You certainly can go back to best practices and that's your homework from 217.15 and everybody out there can do it. And just watch that 15 minute segment on liquidity. There are others and there might even be others that are better than that, but at least you can find one you can understand a little bit more about liquidity and how you can find stocks instead of stumbling on them. No earnings was something that we looked at. Did you look at when Baba had earnings? I didn't, I mean, I didn't see that it was, I don't think it's within four to five days. We don't think, we know. So you have to check if Baba has earnings. Does IWM have earnings? ETFs don't, ETFs, I'm not here to trick you. ETFs don't have earnings. So IWM, SPY, any ETF doesn't have earnings so you don't have to worry about that. So when earnings seasons coming along, you might want to lean towards and look for trades in an ETF. High IV rank, does Baba have a high IV rank? Yeah. So you're good there, but you gotta check for earnings cause I think earnings are coming up. 45 days to open is a market measure from 117, 14 and there are others that you can look at for our criteria and opening trades. All right, tomorrow's Friday. Let's get a trade done. You're gonna make your first trade tomorrow for sure. In those two stocks, you're gonna be selling IWM, you're gonna be buying Baba. Who comes up next? Tim Knight, what do we say? Peace. Good job, Nicky.
Video: 003 - First Trade Bearish On Cost 07 10 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm doing well. Happy birthday. I mean, it's not enough that we spend 15 minutes together every day. I have to have a shirt with your face on. Is it too much to spend 15 minutes with your phone? No, no, that's great. That's the best part. For those who don't know, this is my son, Nikki, a new trader, really never traded before, correct? Yeah, we're going to do the first one today. Okay. All right. So you told me, what did you tell me on the break when you sat in here? Well, yesterday I came in a little over Zellas. I didn't really know what I was doing and today you do. Oh, yeah, today I've changed completely. I'm a new man today. But today I wanted to at least make it easier on myself and kind of use some of the programs that we have at our fingertips. Ta-da. Okay, good. So what do you have planned? So what do you what is it? What is it? So that entails two stocks that don't have earnings. Okay. So I have always had a thing where and Tom do it, Tom and I do it on the show also. We don't talk about anything in advanced in advance of the show because you want it to be spontaneous, want it to be fresh, want it to be new and I want you, you're in a tough situation because I want you to make, I mean, I don't want you to make mistakes, but I want you to make the mistakes that a new trader is going to make so that everybody at home who has never seen the dough platform before or used it and quite frankly I don't use it enough. I want them to see the mistakes that you make doing it and finding a stock so that we can so that they can learn from the process too. So okay, so what do you have planned? So what I want to do is I want to go into dough, use the grid and you know filter by a stock by our criteria and like I told you on the second show on the second show, which you did on the third or the fourth show. Yes, yes, but today I think so you're going to follow. Here's a difference. Here's a difference. Is that today I'm controlling. Okay, so let's put your computer up there and okay, so that's you, right? You're moving your mouse. So this is me. That's your account. Yeah, it has about $30,000 in it. That's what we always start with or that's what we start with past shows that we do. So you've got about $30,000 in it to margin account that allows you to do basically anything that you want to do as long as you have the buying power reduction to make the trade. Meaning as long as you have enough money in the account that the brokerage from holes and leverage, you can make any trade on the sun. That's futures options stock, whatever you want, naked, not naked, any strategy that you want. You welcome. Thank you. Thank you. So we're going to go to the grid page on the left hand side. Okay. And from here, we'll filter by a high options volume. So that's one of our criteria that we're going to stop right there. Truth be told, when we started the show in the break there, you told me what you were going to go to. So I'm going to go to this high option volume. What did I tell you to go to? I thought you'd be high option. Nikki, this is why you had to sit out that sit out that one football game, you know, you're listening, but you just miss it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, stocks, not high option volume. But let's go to high option volume. Because that's what we're looking for. We got to find something that has perfect. Let's go to high option volume stocks. Okay. Good. And then we're going to do the filters, the ones with the blue circle, the ones that don't look like a target sign, those are the ones that are selected. So we want to exclude earnings within a certain range. And we're going to put that to 45. That's fine. And now 45 days is our is our wheelhouse. I usually, and at 45 days is perfect to have that. So you're excluding all earnings inside zero to 45 days. Yeah. Because one of the things that we looked at, one of the things we talked about was we wanted no earnings. That's perfect. So good. The next criteria we're going above 50, I, I, I, VR on this, right? I, VR is I, V rank. It's really just an average. It's 49, 51, 45. It doesn't really matter. Okay. So the next thing, and I didn't show it to you, click on the implied VAL rank right there. Okay. So that'll sort all of the tiles high to low or low to high. So in yours, if you click it one more time, it'll make it 50 to 100. You'll notice that FIT has 51. Click it again. And now on the left hand side there, you have Asher with 100 and we'll bring it down to 50. When we're selling premium, we prefer the higher implied volatility. Okay. So I wanted to go into Costco because Costco, okay, so stop. First trade, we want high implied volatility. We love volatility between 50 and 100, 100 being better than 50. Costco has an IV rank of 54. Yes, it meets the criteria. If it was my 30th trade in my month of trading, I'd say sure, go to Costco. If it was my first trade, I personally wouldn't go there. I'd try to stick to the one. Stay wherever you are. I would personally want to be in the 100, but let's go to Costco. It works. Go ahead. So I'm going to click on the trade button and it'll pull up my Costco. Okay. I usually like to work on the curve to start with just because I'm a visual learner. So I like to see it. Okay. You know, before we go with it. Yeah. And listen, I'm just going to give you my two cents along with you. When Doe first came out, we only had the curve view. We didn't have a table view. We only had a curve view. And then Tom and myself and a bunch of other people all talked about said, let's put a table view in there too, which is more in the style of toss, think or swim the way it looks. But I like to curve as a visualization too. And I think as a new trader, the curve view with that win and loss and green and red is a good indication. A good way of visualizing something. I grew with 100%. Okay. So what are we looking at? So although we're not at the highest end of IVR that we can be, I figure that Costco, it's been up and the whole open, Heimer fund says that this is, you know, buy this by that. So I figure we play that and we do a call to the downside. Heimer, last Heimer, Heimer, Heimer, Heimer, buy this by that. Okay. So whoever this person is knows more about, well, I'm saying maybe somebody's listening to him or, you know, so because it's up $3.50 because you think it was this news, this is why it stocks up. So you're going to fade that move. Yeah. Some of fade that I'm going to go against the, the, the view. Okay. And you said this stock's been up or higher or something like that, right? Today, today, today, today, it's been up two bucks today. Let's bend some up over the last couple days. What does it say? It's up. Today, 351, right. So it's not up $2.351. That's actually a pretty big move, right? Yeah. Okay. So, all right. Okay. All right. I like what you're saying. I like what you're saying. We'll go over tomorrow the different things. Okay. So what do you go ahead? All right. So we're going to sell a call on this. So you want to sell a naked call? Do you know how much? Do you know how much? So go ahead. Which call are you going to sell? First of all, you're going to be in what month? I'm going to be in August 42 days out. Okay. So you are in August 42 days out. And the strikes that we have on there are $5 wide, right? There's the, the one, are you in August with? Yeah. I'm in August 42 days out. So you can see the in the middle of here is how many days out that very good. It's a joke you just made. No, you listen, you know the dough platform a lot better than I do. So you should point out these things. This is going to be awesome. All right. So you're selling that call at it looks like a mid price of around $2.17. Say $2.15. Okay. Well, the natural is 2.15. Go ahead. That was kind of my question was like if you know the difference between a 145 strike and a 150 strike, you know, 150 strike. Mm-hmm. Well, it went from 170 from Sorat like, you know, 50 cents, let's say. What are the 40, 46? 46 and that's enough. 30. Are you talking about the change in the? One option is $2.15. You can see it on the left hand side. Yeah. Right on the bottom. Right. Okay. Stay right there. And that option's 70 cents. So you sell one option, the 145 option. Stay right where you are. You can sell the 150 call. You have an 80% probability of success. It's high. It's great. We like to have a wheelhouse. Remember, you can only control entry. Risk and everything is controlled on entry. Period. You can't control something after the fact. Oops. What's wrong? That's okay. All right. So 70, 70 cents, let's just round 70 cents. Do you know how much buying power reduction you're using for this trade? Probably a lot. Right. Unfortunately, in Doe, we're subject to only the information that we get from from the website TD Ameritrade's website that we feed off of. And it shows max loss of unlimited. It doesn't give you a buying power reduction. It's about 20% of the stock. It's about $2,600 to sell one call to make 70 bucks. We would want to manage that trade at a 50% profit, which would be $35. So stop now. We're at the time. For that reason, there's probably no, it's worth the time. That strike is probably not worth the time. So let's go back to the 145. They're only $5 wide strikes. Okay. Now the stocks 143. You're selling a 145 call. You went from a 80% probability of success to about a 69% probability of success. Let's just round it and say 70. 80% to make 70 cents, 70% to make $2.08. For me, $2.08, at least I'm using $2,600 to possibly make $2.08, which we would look to manage at somewhere around $100. Now all of a sudden, you're becoming, you know, a little bit more, to me, a little bit more in my wheelhouse. For us on entry, we like to sell something for at least a dollar. So if I'm going to sell a naked call or a naked put, or I'm going to sell a naked call and a naked put combined, I want to collect at least a dollar. That's my criteria. So you want to sell this call with 42 days to go to expiration for $2.08. Your break even on it, click it one time, is going to be the credit received plus the strike price. 145 plus 208 is 147.08 and you can see that right where it says max profit winds up being less than or equal to $147.09. It must have taken the penny. Your maximum possible profit is 209. Do you know what that chart is on the right hand side? That chart on the right hand side tells you the amount of days it takes to possibly make 50% on the trade. All right, so let's unclick that for a second. Get out of it. Okay, this is your trade. I'm going to let you make it. If this is the trade you want to make, I'm going to let you make it because you have to make these mistakes yourself. And then tomorrow, I'll show you what I think you should do, like on Monday. All right, okay. So let's go with that. Okay, perfect. So let's put it in. What's the go ahead? You've got to click it. So hold on a second. Hold on before you click it. Go back for a minute. Upper right. Just click on the X. It's okay. Stop clicking around. You're like you like your mic over something like you're all over the place. Relax. Actually, I think you've been here once or twice. Even though it's only five times. This is the first one. So the market is 209-221. Mid price is 215. So let's change your price down at the bottom left to 215. Up to get it. Okay, now you can hit confirm and send or review and send. And now you can click send on the right hand side. Good. Okay, you're filled. You sold your first option. You sold your first call. Bullish a bear strategy. Bear strategy. You want the stock to go lower? We'll stay the same. We'll stay the same. Take a take Nicky off his computer for a minute and let's look at a chart of Costco. And I know we have a minute or two left or less. Because I just want I just want to go back to the statement where you said here's a chart of Costco. You said it's been going higher. It has been going higher over the last four four days or so. I have no problem making this trade because you did everything you were supposed to do. You looked for high implied volatility, a little bit of a contrarian role, high probability trade. Now it's up to the option gods. All right, let's think about what let's let's review what we learned here for a moment. So the only thing the only thing that we can control is entry. And that's what you were doing today when you sold one contract thought about how much premium you were using $26.00 and how much money you were going to receive and your probability of success. The only thing I think that you should have done different in my eyes was look for an ETF because the markets would just would be a little bit tighter. But I love what you did here. You did perfect. You did everything I asked you. What do you think you're probably successes on this trade? I'm just 68 percent. That's what it was at the beginning. Have a great weekend. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. Tim Knight, a rerun of Tim Knight. What do we say? Peace. Peace.
Video: 004 - Selling Premium Using Iron Condors 07 15 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Nikki when I start that versus that me and you you and me how's it going good good hectic day out there Right it has been hectic though Netflix split has been all there's been a lot of support questions coming in for that So we've been busy with that, but yeah, it has been a hectic day here So those who don't know you also do support when you're not this 15 minutes of fame that you have doing live Internet TV Pretty cool. Yeah, yeah, I'm on the chats the live chats through Tasty Trade dough Also doing emails to the small the support desk and call ins a little bit of everything so beautiful It's what startup does everybody does a little bit of everything. Yeah, do you ever see me empty out the dishwasher? No definitely not yet. I haven't done it a long time I'm just kidding He used to do it all the time. We first started Okay, so How are bonds doing today? up a what a buck 30 right now buck 40 up like that point and 11 1 11 tips however you want to phrase it you can say you were right Nick You didn't give me a tweet this morning. I was that Was like oh yeah bonds were down about a half a point this morning Which is a large move a point and a half the other direction is a even larger move But yes this morning the bonds were down Half a half a point and they tweeted out that you had your mother's market awareness Which much do I know but they were up Then and now we could put up if you want to if you want to put up a chart of I'll put up a chart of TLT since we're not gonna be trading futures in your account for quite some time Let's just take a look at a chart of TLT So you can't get any tighter than that right? Yeah, that's just one day So that is one day. Yeah, it's one day. Oh good. I didn't see the left side So that one little that one little tiny red spot at the beginning is the one you were talking about Yeah, the people who help us didn't put the box there in a timely fashion otherwise it would have gotten that right Yeah, so that's the one day chart. So yeah, so they were lower they've rallied and Did you sell a vertical spread? I did not were you gonna sell a vertical call or put spread put spread Push for cuz you were bullish on the product all right cool. So yesterday Didn't allow you to sell a call spread or get or put spread or or get to because we hadn't discussed what it is So I like to discuss what a vertical spread is and then we'll find something to do Let's just take a quick little recap on what your position is right now Why don't we since we have that screen up there? We can go to your screen later on Nick when we go to make a trade But let's just go to your portfolio that is your full portfolio. You're short a Costco 145 call and you're short a Costco 135 put and it looks like you're up about Today you're up about $14 and change on the overall trade I think you're up around 20 some of our dials. It's hard for me to see on the on the overall trade. Okay What's the where's the call trading at what price? Isn't the whole thing the extension Extrinsic value to close up that yeah close up. No, no, you can there we go You know go to the upper right there and make it Yes, thanks. Click on it. All right. So you got $265 in Extrinsic value you sold the call at 217. I think you sold to put it 70 cents 60 69 69 cents you got two eight six and it's trading for $265 So you've got yourself 21 bucks in profit not bad with the stock not going in the direction you want yet Still have a high probability of trade anything over 50 50 we consider high probability trade You're probably a profit on this overall trade is 62 bucks. What has helped you on on this overall trade Let's go to let's just go to the trade page and click on Costco Do you remember what the ivy rank was in Costco when you put on your first trade ever? It's like 52 or 53 somewhere around 100% correct and right now it looks like that's 43 Mm-hmm. So volatility is contracted by 10% and the stock still hasn't gone your way when you sold that call Just to show you what a decaying assets like Give it to the arrow for a minute go to the table for for a second and Let's take a look at what that trade get out of July and go down to August Okay, so the call that you sold was the 145 call if you can draw an arrow to it It's 197 208 right now you sold that call at a mid price of two dollars and 17 cents with the stock About a dollar lower It was about a week ago Monday. I believe it was a trade to make sure I'm Monday Friday Friday last week So we made the trade on Monday was the put that was money was put there we so the put we sold with the stock higher than where it is Now so stocks gone lower the puts lost money But the stocks gone higher the calls lost money. That's a perfect storm for us Now we want the stocks just to kind of sit here contract a little bit and we set a reasonable expectation of About a dollar a little bit over a dollar a dollar our original credit received 50% of our original credit received 217 around a dollar dollar five dollar eight dollar ten anywhere in there 95 cents anywhere in there is it would be an acceptable Place to close it. Let me give you one more little secret or a little bit of trade hack or something like that That should typically happen on average in about 20 days after you put on the trade if you're placing these trades around 45 days to expiration That's just the way the numbers work out if it works out it's about 20 days from now Is that just a general ruler is that based on it's not a guy it's it's based it's based on on research that we've done here Tasty trade and there's a bunch of market measures on it you certainly could Send an email to research at tasty trade.com and they'll give you you know a couple of segments for you to check out And you should do that yourself too. So at least you have the numbers behind it I mean, I know you're gonna take my word for it because I'm your father But you know somebody else out there might not you know believes I say the truth all the time all right so Even the S&P is down $4.50 since this becomes a part of market awareness Do you know what the e-mail S&P's? That's the S&P 500? That's what would all fun managers or like like like When I was a kid people would say what's the Dow doing? No way would said like what are what's the S&P 500 doing as the market matured? Everything became you know, what's the market doing? They still quote the Dow they still talk about the Dow But anybody in the business or in the know who or anybody who does their own investing They always want to know what the S&P 500 is doing because 500 stocks 500 most capitalized stocks is a better Indication of what the overall market is doing than a select 30 than having the Or the the big wide range of of everything now, you know that that would skew at more than than the 500 top 100% it's you know so funny because everything we talk about is how We need number of occurrences S&P 500 versus the Dow 30 so you want when you're trading You want a number of occurrences you want to put on as many trades again to have a flatter skew meaning You know one goes higher one goes a little bit lower and everything kind of you hope everything kind of works out for itself All right, so you've got one trade on so that's like Micro managing a position meaning you know, I'm gonna put on one thing I'm gonna find the best trade and I'm a sit and watch or they'll you can drive yourself nuts because you were doing that right I got the itch right now. I'm like, oh, I've got to put on a couple more This is that's exactly what you said to me and yesterday When we're on the show you were talking about like let's do a vertical spread what haven't even told you what a vertical spread is or at least I know you're working here at tasty trade And I know everybody out there who's watching this has watched other segments So they know what a vertical spread is but it's always good to go back to the basics and let me give you the setup For what we want for a vertical spread so let's go Let's go into double use we'll use a screen that we have up there and then we'll get to your Screen for you to place the trade Let's just go into the just because they can draw the arrows on here. It's a little easier for them. Yeah, let's get out of this and go to The tiles on the left hand side called the grid And this is what I do every day. I'm looking for a trade. I'm looking to sell sell the first thing I want to do is sell volatility So I'm looking for high implied volatility. So click on the funnel Get rid of all the excluding earnings Let's go to 37 days to expiration You can do zero to you can do 50 to 100 first if you want to it doesn't matter me So we're looking for an ivy rank around 50 to 100 and then change that from zero to 120 down to 37 now you have it right already Otherwise zero to 37 for the earnings because we want to take those out of our range because we don't we don't want the earnings to occur Before that expiration or right on the expiration could have said better myself And then click off of that And we don't have a big and if you remember on Friday we had about Three or four rows of stocks to pick from today. We only have five. So what does that tell you volatility is doing? Um, it's probably going lower. I mean there's not a lot of stocks that have high volatility Perfect. It's contracting. I just want to make sure that you get them. I'm asking the same question That's why make sure that you're getting it. I see the same question in a different way Okay, so if all the stocks up there for reasons that we'll go into it another day Greek the first one FXC and Asher. I'm gonna throw them out Greek is a is a ten dollar stock markets are a little bit wide in there. I don't have a problem with you Trading that stock, but I'm a little bit of a of a bull on a dip Meaning that I want to buy that stock As the stock is going lower. We call that buying into weakness Move or going a little bit higher. I like to sell into strength so I like to sell something A little bit higher. I like to buy into weakness like to buy something when it's going a little bit lower Why? I think I'm getting it in a discount and I think I'm selling it at a premium. I don't know if it's going to go higher or lower, but that's just my thinking. Always in a contrarian role. And I hope that you develop that same type of style. Okay. Next thing that we have up there is TLT. Now TLT are bonds that's what you wanted to trade yesterday. If we're looking for high implied volatility, everything being relative, that's the highest, most highest implied volatility, most liquid product that we have on the board. So we should have a position in there. Now let's hold on a minute. If you look at the tile, it says it's up $1.36. It's a big movement today. Big movement up. So I must owe you some money because you want to sell a put spread in there. So you did good. Okay. So now what are we going to do? Since we've had a big move up of around 1%, a little over 1% on the stock, let's look at selling a put spread like you wanted to, which is a bullish strategy. And since the stock's ran up already, let's sell a call spread too. Also together, it's called an iron condor. It's two vertical spreads of vertical spread and a credit spread are exactly the same thing. It's like saying six of one, half dozen of another. Vertical spread, credit spread, same exact thing. Makes sense? Makes sense. Debit spread is buying the spread. Credit spread is selling the spread. We're going to sell two vertical credit spreads. We're going to sell a call spread and we're going to sell a put spread. We're going to make the same type of risk graph that you have in Costco. We're going to do it all with one click. And we're going to use a lot less buying power. Okay. Yeah. Let's get off of this screen for a moment and let's get to your own screen and put in TLT for me. So we forget about Costco for now. We leave that on. We already know how we're going to get out of the trade. You could certainly go there. Do you have something in there, ready? What is that? Hold on. What? What do you got? That was just... So clear it on the right hand side dish. Should everybody do that? Okay. Beautiful. So Do does a great job of setting us up at a one standard deviation. Let me show you what Do does and then let's see how we can modify it to fit our own entry criteria. Remember, the only thing that we can control is entry. So that's number of contracts and what strategy we pick. We're picking a high implied volatility stock, high IV rank. So that means we're selling premium. Let's go and click on strategy for me. And then we're going to go down to Iron Condor. Now, before you click on anything else, look at what the box does right in there. It shows you a risk graph of the strategy that you're going to do. Like, if you didn't have somebody talking to you and telling you what an Iron Condor is, if you looked at that risk graph, you're selling a call, selling a put that's closer at the money. And you're buying a call and buying a put that's further out of the money to define your risk. Okay. So we want to do a normal Iron Condor. That's the top one. Go to your advanced settings for a moment. Okay. So expiration 15 days. What's our optimal time to get into a trade? 45. So let's put 45 in there and see what happens. Do we like to trade weekly options or monthly options? Monthly is what we prefer. So get rid of the weeklies. You don't have to have that on there now. If you want to do a weekly trade someday, we'll look at it. Click on one standard deviation. Okay. With the strikes. Now here, this is an interesting thing about an Iron Condor as opposed to a vertical spread. And I would have loved to have done a vertical spread today. But markets just don't don't permit us to do that. Meaning you were bullish on the spread the time you were bullish on the stock. The time to do it was yesterday when you wanted to. Let's not make sense to do that. Well, I don't know if it's going to go higher, but it just had a 1% move. It's not the type of product that has that large of a move typically. Although it's been very volatile lately. So maybe we'll just play the movement back and forth. Okay. Total widths. So if I'm risking, if I, if define your maximum risk, you see how it says it on the right hand side. So if I went $1 wide, I have a $100 worth of risk. If I did a $2 wide, I have $2 worth of risk. $5 wide, I did $5 worth of risk. How wide do you want to go? I mean, it depends on what kind of credit I'm getting is how I would. Okay. So as a, as a new trader, that's a pretty good answer. And it's a fair answer and it's not a wrong answer. I'll give you what we've, I've given you what we found. So that you have good rules or at least good guidelines. $3. $3 wide iron condors with around 45 days to go to expiration. Seems to be the best risk reward from our research. So let's start with $3. All right. $3. And click go. Okay. So I brought you to August with 37 days, which is perfect. It's got, you see those two white lines there right about where your two short strikes are? That's a one standard deviation move. 85% of the time, the stock stays inside that one standard, excuse me, around 75% of the time, the stock stays inside. That's really 68%. 68% of the time, the stock stays inside that one standard deviation range. What's your credit received? 56 cents. 56 dollars. So we have a little bit of a rule here. We like to collect around one third the width of the strikes. Okay. So one third the width of a $3 wide strike with the around a dollar. So let's tighten up our widths. Okay, now stop for a moment. You've got about a dollar about one third the width of the strikes. Look at the prices on the call that you're selling. 66 cents. And look at the price of the put that you're selling. A dollar two. Do you see that? Yeah. Now, now they're both about, well, let's see, 17 and a half to 22. You're about five down. You're a little bit closer on the put side, correct? Makes sense? Let's just take that put side down a little bit. And then move the call side down a little bit. So just stay right there. Just move all the strikes, all the the width to the left. Well, that way. Thanks. Okay, perfect. So now we went from a from a from a one standard deviation range. Now we moved it into kind of almost equal. Does it make sense? Your puts for trading for around the same price that you call's trading for. It's still $3 wide. You're getting around that 90 cents. Let's route this one time at 89 cents. You're probably going to have to move it by a penny or two to get filled. But we'll leave it right now the way it is. Okay. Let's let's try to review a little bit about what we talked about today. Okay? And tomorrow I'll go over more of what an iron condor is and all of the benefits of why you should do a condor possibly over the directional the directional aspect of a vertical spread. I had to trade that you put on had a had a 58% probability of success. We can say that a high probability trade because it's anything over 50%. A vertical spread is a simultaneous purchase and sale of two options. Same type same expiration dates but different strike prices. Same type meaning both calls or both puts. In your case you did two vertical spreads. You did two vertical credit spreads at the same time to make an iron condor. You okay? You're fine with it? Yeah. Okay. Sounds good. Who comes up next? Tonight. A rerun of 10. We run for the seven times. We're going live? Oh last call. Oh yeah. Never mind. Last call. I'm still on duty. Tonight's back tomorrow. Peace.
Video: 005 - What Can We Learn From Iv Difference In Expirations 07 16 2015.mp3
Transcript:  That versus bat, where do I start? What's up my friend? How are you? Got my red on today trying to uh... Yeah, I'm trying to earn some brownie points with the ladies, listen Jenny, I mean come on. If the apple isn't falling far from the tree, that's my son sitting over there. So red shirt, red shirt Thursday, you put on a red shirt because you think you got a shot? I'll take my chances, I mean, that's good. That's good. Okay, okay. I wasn't able to crack that egg, but okay. Sounds good to me. Good for you. How's your day going? It's going well. It's been a little slower day today, but uh... it's been good. Okay, good. Good. And that's what... so how do you quantify a good day? I mean, a little slower, support wise. Okay, so we're to a little bit slower support, but how do you quantify a good day? What made you a good day? Oh, well, in this, make money. Oh, okay. But at least going my direction or staying where I actually... I think you're actually making some money. Let's put your... you know what? Let's... how about this? Let's use the other computer first, not yours, just because we can put some circles around some of the things and then we can look at it. So, um... yeah, put a circle. You're up $37.50. I mean, that was the right answer. For me, a good day and a bad day starts with how my trading account is doing. You're not doing it having a good day, right? Yeah, yeah. This is how this is going to go, huh? Yeah, today's a rough day for me. Yeah, today's a rough day. I got a little... Got a little too large in Netflix. You know, got a little too large in Netflix. If I had traded my normal size, it would have just been, you know, a lousy day. I got a little too big. Size kills. Talk about it with you. You know, stay in mechanical, understanding what, you know, what the risks are. Um, keeping a number of occurrences up. You only have two number of occurrences. I have my number of occurrences up in my own account. But yeah, I broke the rules. Thought I saw something. Genius fails. Thought I saw something that was going to be... going to be great. You're going to work it. I want to make it right. You're going to... you're just like you were working in Costco. Not adding to your position, but selling the put against the call you're making it work. So I'm going to do the same thing. But the first day, it's not a great feeling. You're not going to lie. No, you'll experience it someday. God willing you will. Because you have to come in this business, any business. If you're opening up a convenience store in the corner, you know, there are going to be days and probably months when, you know, you don't make your not or the customers don't come in or they go next door or you, you know, you zig when you should zag, you zig when you should zig. It happens. So far, you're doing okay in both of your, your, your trades. TLT was one and Costco was the other. It looks like you're up around $12 for the day and you're up $38 total on around $3,500 in overall risk in your account that you have. So you've made 1% or so or a tenth of a percent or so over the last couple of days. Pretty good. Okay. So what do you got from your day? What, what do you bullish on? Today I wanted to look into since we always talk about gambling and my affinity for it. I wanted to go at L, LVS at Las Vegas Sands Las Vegas Sands. Okay. All right. And so. So what's the, what's the IVR in Las Vegas Sands, the IVR rank? It's at 65. Okay. So definitely hits our range. Looking for high implied volatility that that works, right? When did this have earnings? I believe it was yesterday. See, I don't know because we didn't, if we click the E, okay, the top it'll give us a little drop down. So yeah, earnings. So it had earnings just yesterday. Is that minus one day is over the size? Yep. Okay. Okay. All right. So, all right. So what do you, what do you look at when you, or so you bullish on it doesn't, doesn't matter, it doesn't matter to me. Why, I mean, doesn't matter me why or what? If I were to look at this stock, let's just go to a chart of it real quick, just to see where it's, just to see where it's been. Nothing else than a visual of the last 30 days. Okay. So for the last 30 days or so, it seems like it's about mid range. It's had a big drop off. Listen, I'm not reading into any of this. I don't trade Las Vegas Sands that much. We trade it. We trade it sometimes. Come on, Anton. I think they're the 22nd. Okay. I thought so too, because implied volatility is 48% 42% with July and eight days. So that's wrong on there. Want one? Shoot. Well, the next thing I was going to do for you was it closed out that for a moment. And let's see, I close up August and let's see the implied volatility on. It's not that, it's not that great there. Let's see what eight days to go. We not have the weeklies up there. It has one day, 36 days. It doesn't have any of the weekly. Let's change that. Thank you. Okay. There you go. Okay. So you see the eight day with that star there showing a high implied volatility of 45%. And then it slowly goes down to 41, 37, 36. That kind of tells me that something's going to happen in that July expiration, just because of all the tillies a little bit higher. Okay. All right. So could we back, could we backtrack then? Okay. Since you made fun of me in Netflix, how about you get involved in Netflix? All right. Okay. But I want you to get involved with a debit spread. Okay. So yesterday we talked about a credit spread, a time flies. Yesterday we talked about a credit spread. What's a credit spread? Credit spread is when we are taking in credit for the trade. Okay. So it's the simultaneous buy and sell of two options, two different options. In the same month, you're selling a larger option and you're buying a smaller option to create a credit. A debit spread is exactly the opposite. You're buying an option that has, it's higher in value, say $5. And selling another option that has a lower value. Let's just say $3 and you're creating a debit. I paid five, I sold something at three. I'm creating a debit of two bucks. My risk then is $2. To find risk trade just like the credit spread. So you can use the same strikes and have a debit spread would be buying it. And a credit spread would be selling it. Does it make sense? Okay. So Netflix, up $17.90, everybody loves Netflix today. $8 expected move. It's two times the expected move. Presplit, which was just yesterday. That's a well over $105 move on the stock. When it should only move about 50 bucks or so, 55 bucks. Tremendous move. Let's go to August, put on a debit spread. And let's just assume for a moment, and I'm not bullish. But let's just assume for a moment you were bullish. If we were going to do a debit spread, we might look to buy an option that's one strike or two strikes or three strikes in the money. And sell an option that's one strike, two strikes or three strikes out in the money. Now, these strikes are going to be a little bit messed up because you've got all these funky numbers to them. So let's do the $15.20 call spread. Stock is 16 and change. What do we just stay on your computer just because we're there right now? Go to strategies, go to vertical, go to long call. So we're buying the $15.20 call spread and it looks like it's trading for. If we look on the right, yeah, you're going to have to move them probably manually because you just double clicking on it, clicking X, and then you can click on selling. There you go. And what's it trading for $2.30? $2.30. We like to create a debit spread where we are paying no extrinsic value over the stock price. Can you so circle the stock price of 16, 16, 16, and 17 cents? If I paid $2.30 for the spread, am I paying any extrinsic value over the price of the stock? You would be. Why? Because the buy is below the current price and it's only $1.17. So you're paying $1.13. Perfect. It's the right answer. 100%. That's awesome. See now you understand spreads. Like you understand a credit and debit spread by that answer. By being able to answer that, you understand all vertical spreads. We want to create a spread where we would be paying a guess for that $5 wide spread where we're paying around $1.17 because then we wouldn't have any extrinsic value over the stock. That's awesome. Let's just take a quick look at what we talked about today. At least tried to talk about it. We got a little bit off track here. You can get off of your screen. Perfect. So a debit spread, and I got this right from our glossary. If you go to the bottom of the tasty trade site, you can get these right yourself and see these. And there's a whole bunch of other terminologies that we have up there. A debit spread is just a spread that when it opens results in money being debited from your account, when we look to buy a debit spread, we don't look at what the delta is on the spread. We don't look at any of the strikes. We look at as a 50-50 probability with defined risk. And we look to pay no extrinsic value or very little extrinsic value over the premium of the stock. A credit spread is exactly the opposite. It's a spread that when open results in a credit in your account, and we like to collect how much, what percentage of the width of the strikes. 1-3. 1-3. That's it. Nothing else. Tomorrow, we'll try to combine those. You don't have to put the card up, but tomorrow, we'll try to combine those. If you combine a debit spread with a credit spread, you can create a butterfly. And then if you get really fancy, you can create a broken-wing butterfly, which we'll do tomorrow in Netflix. Sound good? Cool. All right. Good job out of you. Tim Knight's next. He's live. I think for the first time, right? Yes. Going to be awesome. What do I normally say? Good job, son. Peace.
Video: 006 - Trading A Butterfly Spread In Nflx 07 17 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Make it we're back Where do I start back first back back to bat how are you good? How are you good everything all right? Yeah? It's good. It's Friday. Can't be too uh too unhappy. I saw you in the makeup room getting makeup put on Take a pictures and everything like that. Was that you yeah, you got to look good come on you didn't have any makeup I'm just teasing you. You days, okay? Yeah, all right my positions are kind of um, I've got a Close touch close to being a touch on my Costco call that I sold Okay, but I still got time on it, so okay, so there's a concern you all my mean of course It's a little bit uh concerning, but I Yeah, I'll keep I'll keep the time and and deal with it You know if it gets any closer or worse all right Well, let's put your account up this since you mentioned it But I really want to talk about and get a trade put on for you in a butterfly But we'll mention it go to um, that's your screen right neck. Yeah, okay. Let's go to Open up the trade just so we could see what the strike so that's perfect So you shut the 145 call stocks right about 145 will just round up But you sold that call for $2.17. So your break even is is what? Um Plus 217 on top of 147 17 plus the 60 cents that you sold for the put brings you up to 147 You know 77 it's called 147 80 correct, okay, so yeah Remember something We'd never discussed this but if you sell an option would a 30% which is about the range that we always go into 30 35 25% So we're in that that range if you sell an option with a 30% probability of being Uh in the money. What do you think the probability of a touches like what do you think the probability of a stock in that time frame touching your short strike? Like what portion of that percentage or just overall overall if there's a 30% chance That it's gonna be in the money. What's the probability of a touch? It's double So it's a there's a there's a 60% chance that the stock is gonna hit that strike So when you sell a call you sell a put bullish or bearish it doesn't matter to me Your strike Is more than likely going to be tested that doesn't mean the trade has to be a losing trade Your put your call looks like it's trading it around uh 229 229 so so it is a small loser because you just sold it four or five days ago The stock hasn't had a down-tox that you sold it yeah, but yet the overall position has a gain to it But let's need a here and there when you sold that call if it had a 35 delta There's about a 70% chance it's gonna be gonna be a touch of that strike So it's it's it's a foregone conclusion that that's probably gonna happen Does that make sense yeah, all right cool So keep that in mind for a moment because I want to show you something um it's your computer. So let's go to let's go to you Let's go to um let's go to Netflix and let's go on the trade page Are you really are concerned about this Costco because you've been you have it up there on the screen the last thing you checked Okay, or what do you have up there? um I've got a short call butterfly Short call butterfly impossible. Just get out of that. I'm not I'm not yeah, that's okay. Click on straight stop Believe what you have there. I you cleared it. All right never do you Yeah, stop stop stop stop clicking around you get more crazy Click on the strategies to release that up on the top left there you go Okay now stop now go to the right there on your screen And you see where it says undo on the top top right right there go to the left. They go Stop that button allows you to click back and forth to what you used to have on in your platform So if you move something you like it and then all of a sudden you know you don't like it anymore You can go back and forth and change the strikes. We have it. Okay, and other way you could do like a redo too You can you can redo right and go back very good all right, so All right, so I see things here that I don't like I'm gonna tell you why First you have a butterfly strategy up there, which is great We never sell butterflies That's a that's a short butterfly we only buy butterflies they trade very very cheap They Probability of success Which means if you sold them like you want to do here it has a very high probability of success But the risk reward Isn't that great meaning you could make 45 cents in the spread that you have up there it looks like you can lose Around three dollars Is that correct? Yeah for Three dollars yeah Three twelve okay So we don't do that all right we buy butterflies and we buy butterflies Typically when there's a high implied volatility Why do you think we would buy butterflies in a high implied volatility Because they're the markets expecting a price move in the Another line that's awesome and since they they this is great Since they since they expect a large window of movement they trade cheaper Said does that make does that make sense because nobody they're dependent flip that over if you could Make it a buy Just To a long call yeah, okay, that's fine. How have you did it at a little time You like clicking around on the button, so yeah, you're really like a new toy for you Now you're in the wrong month you were in the you were in the 42 days before yeah, so here I'm at 42 days here Okay, I don't think that's the same when you had up there, but it doesn't matter me. Oh, I'd yeah It's okay. You know, you know, what you could have done Right What you could have just oh yeah, I could have done my him my undo. Yeah, you could have done your undo You could have you could have flipped them over there on the On the swap see up on top there right there oops go click it They see it change it from by the cell A lot less clicks, but you know you you know you young kids with your with your games you like to click around Trial and error trial and error. Okay, but now you learn you really see introduced you remember the the swap button Okay, so we always buy butterflies a butterfly is the combination of a long call spread In the example you have up there is the 112 in change and you're selling You got to throw on flip now again. There you go Wow, I'm gonna think for for next couple days we're gonna have somebody else drive for a while So so we can get something done here All right, so you're buying a call spread that's the 112 in change call and selling the 115 you notice it's one by two by one Do you see that two on the cell? So you're buying one call spread and you're selling another call spread equal distance away I don't think you have equal distance away there, but that's that's neither here. No there. That's a classic butterfly All right, so you have 42 days up there we trade monthlies and I've told you this before So stop looking anywhere else for a trade that's not in the monthlies the monthlies have 35 days to go You're trying to set it so that it doesn't uh Yeah, to show only the regular Explorations which they say working with your child is a gift Uh-huh All right, so how's this experiment working for you So I'm at the um here I got the monthlies Very good August 21st, okay click them So now what do you have up there? You can stay right where you're at the table now now you got the table switch on around do you have ADD? I don't think you have ADD. Do you? All right, so So can I show you what we do? Uh-huh. All right, so get rid of that one buy that you have up there and you know what? Get rid of the whole give it hold it get rid of the whole thing clear fresh. Thank you. All right You can stay right where you are if you want to I want to click the buttons though. I know how you want to click the buttons All right, so remember I told you yesterday I showed you a spread that we didn't want to pay any extrinsic value over the Stock price let's buy the 111 43 call so you can click on buying the 111 43 call Uh, okay, and now let's click on selling the 116 43 call It's gonna be down a little bit Right there Okay, now try to make it so that everybody can see what you're buying on the other stop right there Okay, so that spread is trading for about two dollars and 70 cents now. I know that the strikes are a little bit odd in there. So What's the? Is there any extrinsic value on that spread? And do you know how to figure it out? $2.70 is what the price is Uh-huh, and you got how many use more 111 43 is the strike that you're buying Plus 270 right? Yes, that puts me at 113 cents 13 cents 13 cents So that's Below what the current price is To us now change it to the curvy leave leave all the options and then just click on a curvy To us we consider that a 5050 shot and that's exactly what the computer shows you it's a 5050 shot You'll notice that your green line is below Where the stock price is trading at the green? Little teardrop there is where the stock is trading at so to us that's basically a 5050 shot That's a stock substitution for us. So I'm only risking $270 To make just about $200 and change click review and send one time So you so you're risking $270 to make $230 We're doing a call vertical here though. That's a call vertical And I'm not really necessarily bullish on Netflix, but I but I want to and I'm actually bearish But get rid of that. So click the X on the top right Either way Perfect. Okay, go back to the table view All right, so now I want to add remember I told you a butterfly is a long call spread There's your long call spread and the combination of a short call spread So make that short call that you have the one 1643s make it two contracts All right, you have to You have to click it. Okay, now we're gonna buy something if we were doing a regular butterfly We'd have to buy something five dollars away because that spread is five dollars wide correct From the first call from the The other call that we're buying five From there or from the one that we're selling From the one that you're selling why because the one that you're buying is five dollars away from the one you're selling Okay, so it's gonna make ten points It's gonna be ten dollars wide, but we call it a five dollar wide butterfly Okay, okay, because it's your short strike where do you want the stock to go? Stay there you want to stay in the range you want the stock to go right to your short strike Just about every strategy we do you want the stock to go to your short strike for the sake of time because we're running out of it If I wanted to buy a regular butterfly I would buy the next call five dollars out of the money Okay, I want you to buy the call that's ten dollars out of the money So go to the one 2643 call And you had to click on buy Perfect you Perfect you're good. Yeah, I'm good. You're good What do we paint go back to the curve view for a moment Uh, that says debit change the debit to a credit I can Give it a second to refresh if it will Okay, go back You just have to you have to click it or make it zero or something like that you get to here. Yeah There we go. No You're fine perfect leave it like that just leave it like that. It's got a one-cent credit perfect Okay, what I want to show you is that was a three-cent debit so you have risk on both sides But your risk on one side all the way to the downside was only three cents three dollars Here if you do it for a credit your risk to the downside is zero So you go from a 50 50 shot to a 70 30 shot your way you still want the stock to paint at your short strike Because that's where you'll make the most money, but you make money all the way down I want you to find a butterfly spread That you're buying one side five dollars selling another side ten dollars Where your call is out of the money and you're able to do it for a credit That's your homework assignment and then make the trade and push it through because I got other shows to do all right Let's try to let's try to go over Uh, can I push this or no that doesn't meet your criteria. I said you're gonna find your own strikes I said you said you go out I thought you said push this one through and then find another one. I need You're one lot Johnny trader. You don't trade two lots one lot All right, you're four days in for crying out loud You can read up there what a butterfly spread is you should probably go over the segment again Cuz I don't think you'll pay attention you're clicking around too much You see what a butterfly spread is a broken wing butterfly spread is just making that Oh shorter side wider To finance and I hate that word but to finance what you're paying for the For the five dollar wide original Spread and that spread could be any with doesn't have to be five dollars. Why this is amusing for Netflix Okay, where's your risk on that trade? Um to either either on this one or like in general the one No, the broken wing who cares about the bottom of the upside if it goes bullish perfect So where do you want to start to go down or stay the same Very good hard working with you. It's tough working with him too What do we say till next peace
Video: 007 - Using Skewed Iron Condors As A Bullish Strategy 07 20 2015.mp3
Transcript:  What do I start? Bat vs. Bat. How are you, my man? Well, thanks. Have a nice weekend and see you this weekend. I did. I was at a wedding. I had some fun. Good. High school friends, old college friends, aerosus. It was a good time. Good time. That's why I didn't see you on Sunday. I figured you were. Yes, yes. Sunday was Saturday. Day of rest for me. Day of rest. I think you sent me a text message and said, you're not getting off the couch. Something like that. Yeah, I was feeling hurt. Yeah. So you're maturing, but you're not there yet. Not there yet. Got it. Got it. Okay, so enough chitchat. Make up for the weekend and we didn't see each other. Okay, so what's the market doing to your account? It's been good. I mean, it's all my positions have looked okay. So what's the market doing? Look, I mean, well, I know what the market's doing every day. So you handle some things. Hold on, you handle support. It takes the trade, right? Talk to customers all day long. You're supposed to be instrumental on what's going on with Do. I ask you, what's the market doing and you got a look? Yeah. You may as up five points, five and a half. For every been all day. Thinking up around five points, right? Okay, where's the overall market? High, low, medium, extreme in market for what? You're a trader. You tell me. Yeah. I mean, so what's the market mean to you? Let's put a chart up of SPY that's standing in ports 500. So let's just take a look at the S&P 500. SPY's been down. No. No. There you have it. You got to get you away from your mother. What's what's what is SPY done? Well, it's like it's unchanged over the last 30 days. That's a that's a you know, that's a six. That's a six month chart. Basically a year to date. So we're up. If you look on the left hand side, this is what I want you to have set up on your charts. So if you look on the left hand side, the IV rank, 2.3%. That's extremely low. Do you see it in right on the left? Okay. Price change up 4.4%. That's in the last 10 days. If you you shouldn't know how to do this and you shouldn't have to put on your own charts so that you can see what's going on. So you have this in your. So if I ask like what's going on with the market, yeah, you're right. Like I don't know. Tell me what in what time frame? What do you what do you mean what's going on with the market? We're at all time highs. That's that's a given. What's the market been doing recently? Well, I mean, I guess you could say if you if you discount the last 10 days, we've been going we were we were starting to go a little bit lower. But now we've come back, right? So you've got markets at all time highs. You've only got three positions on. We want to have a lot more positions on. But we're trying to go slow yet fast. Is this a market extreme? I don't think so. I mean, why? I mean, it's an opinion. I don't know what is it. Do you know what? I have one more homework because I'm a for you. Can you handle it? I need you to Google search when you don't want to show market extremes or the definition of market extremes. I dare you to find the definition of market extremes because they don't quantify it. Nobody talks about it. Well, and aren't there many different markets? I mean, if I said what are the market extremes for a specific stock or for commodities or for, I mean, aren't they are they all together as one or king and consider them separate? You played football out when you were growing up, right? Okay, so if you missed, played defense offense, you played both, right? Okay, so if you missed two plays in ten plays, would that be a market extreme? No. Well, weren't you in on every play? Yeah. So if you missed two, would that be extreme? Yes, that would be extreme. If you missed one, would that be extreme? Yeah. So I mean, it's... Well, you can't win without your best player on the field. Yeah. Well, it's a good thing you follow as the coach. Anyway, yeah. I understand. What I'm trying to say here is, you have to quantify it somehow. You have to say something. Like, you have to put it into perspective so that every time. So we look at ten days. If the markets moved 5% or more, typically between 5% and 10% in a 10-day period, that's that number on the left hand side where you look at an SPY of 4%, we say that that's kind of a market extreme or something for us to look at. That's not my point. Makes sense? So we're getting there now. We aren't getting there on the market. Let's look at GLD for a moment. We have low implied volatility in SPY. Okay, so now GLD, 52% IV rank. Higher IV rank gives us a lot more things that we can trade. So this is at an extreme too. It's moved 5, 5 dollars and 44 cents. 5.4%. Not dollars. Yes, 100%. So if I asked you, is GLD at an extreme the way we quantify it, you might say, yeah, it is. It's actually at a five-year lower, around a four-year lower, something like that. That fact means nothing to me. Because I deal in a 45, 30 to 45 to 60, 45 days being the perfect range. So for me, I want to know what's going on right now. How many downs have you missed this game? I don't care for the last three years how many you missed. I'm looking like right now and I want to see right now. So GLD in my eyes is at a market extreme. Okay, let's go to your account. We'll just stay right in the place that we're at. Okay, so you've got an overall probability of profit on your account of 72%. That's high and that's good, especially in this market condition that we're in. But we only have three positions on. Let's be fair. And you've got a small amount of, well listen, everything is relative. But you have $300, $325 in extrinsic value to make this month on your overall position. Okay, did you know that you can click on each individual position to see, to see the risk graph on each one? Let's take a look at that. Unclick all of them and just click on Costco. Okay, so if you click on Costco, it gives you a risk graph. So you don't have to know anything about options here. But you could tell if that white circle is where the stock is right now and green is good and red is bad. The more it increases the risk of getting to that trade. In that trade. Yeah. Let's unclick Costco and look at Netflix. Now that first position that you have in Costco is an iron condor. Well, it's a, is a, is a strangle. Yeah. This one you have on is a, you know what it is? This is our butterfly. Butterflies actually a broken wing butterfly. Perfect. Because we did it for a $1 credit. One Sank credits. So it cuts out the risk below the lowest strike points. That's correct. You have no risk to one side and you just, you just, you just did a, you did a good trade of term for a moment there. Like you said $1 and then you corrected it to one cent. In our world, one cent is $1. If you told me you did this for a $1 credit, I would think you did it for a $100 credit. So this is just a big difference. Big difference. But as you start learning the terminology and everybody else starts learning the terminology out there, they'll start doing the same thing. Okay, this one in Netflix, although you have no risk to the downside, you wouldn't mind if it went up a dollar two or three in the next, you know, 30 some odd days. That's unclick Netflix and go to TLT. Okay, TLT, you have an iron condor on equal risk on both sides, stocks right in the middle. Okay, nothing. So you're a whole account, you know, for what it's worth, neutral, neutral, neutral. You're, your whole position, um, click them all for me for a moment because it's going to make it well. There you go. Um, you're up around $49.50. So since we started last week, and it looks like you're up about 28 bucks today. Not bad. Yeah. On $4,000 worth of risk. I don't know. It's a pretty good rate of return. Yeah. You were in the business for a while. That's pretty good. Yeah. Okay, but we haven't booked anything. So it doesn't matter. All right, let's go back to what our market, what we feel is a market extreme the way we quantify it and the way we present it. Let's go into GLD. We'll go to the trade tab. Okay, so the first thing that we want to do is we want to be in the August monthlies. That's the one that we always go to. And that's what we have there. We like monthly options. I shouldn't say always August, always the monthly options around 20 to 25 days. It's going to be the last time that we would put on a trade in that front month. We probably look to the back month after that. Okay, what kind of trade you want to put on in GLD? You have a broken wing butterfly. You have a strangle on and you have an iron condor. So let's go bullish or bearish? Let's go bullish on gold. Okay, because you have to have an opinion, right? Yeah. You can have a neutral position, but you have to have a position. Okay, so what do you want to do? Let's go with some, I mean, let's get long, a long call vertical maybe or... Okay, so hold on a second. What do we have? High implied volatility, a low implied volatility. We have high implied volatility. High V rank. So long call spread. You know, it doesn't fit there. You don't want to be buying. Right. So we could do, I mean, we could do a short put spread. Perfect. Stop right there. Don't complicate it. Let's do a short put spread. Let's go to the curve view just for them, just for everybody to look for a moment. Then we're going to come back here. All right, so the put spread that we're selling is the, that they have up there is the 104 102. It's got about a 64, 65% probability of success. What do we like to collect on a vertical spread? The extrinsic. We want to make sure that it's... We're always going to collect the extrinsic because we're selling something. We're always going to sell something out of the money, which means it's worth nothing if today was expiration. It's worth whatever it's trading for. A third of the width of the strikes. Perfect. Do you have a third here? Do we go from the price or the two strikes that were... So you have a $2 wide put spread. You'd want to collect one third of the width of the strikes, which is approximately... That's 75 cents. 65 cents. 66. Right. So do you get 66 cents here? Again, 51 there. So you got to move it up. So move up the put side. There you go. That's four. Now you have 78 cents. Correct? So that would work, right? That would work. Let's go down half a strike for a moment. Five and a half. There you go. And then three and a half. Five and a half. Five and a half, three and a half gives us 70 cents. Closest to one third. That's all I'm looking for. Alright, so... And I'm running out of time and I do apologize. I want to throw a monkey wrench in this for you. Instead of just doing a short vertical spread. Cos Costco, you have bearish on. And the stock hasn't had a downtick since you put it on. Our hedge that we did is making all the money. You're directionally... You've been wrong for the last week. So I'm going to assume that you have that same type of mentality. So we're going to hedge up that. I think you're ultimately going to be right in Costco. And I'm bearish on Costco. And I'm losing money in Costco. You're actually making money in Costco. So you're doing better than me. But our assumptions haven't been good on direction. So let's get smart and strategic. Let's put on a $1 wide call spread on top of this. Let's sell the 108109 call spread. It's not going to cost us any more buying power while you put that on if you could. If you want to go to the table view you can and make it easier for you. Okay. He's going to put in the 108109 call spread. So what we're doing here is we have $2 worth of risk. We collect $0.70 for argument 6. Our buying power reduction is going to be $130. By selling this call spread since the stock can't close that expiration above the calls and below the puts. It has to close only at one price. You're not getting margined on both sides. So instead of having $130 you're collecting almost $102 here. Your buying power reduction would be $98. That would be a lot less. It would be a lot less. Probability of getting to 108 is 35%. But you're collecting a dollar. So your break even is actually over 109. Go back to the curve view. You have no risk to the upside and you're collecting another 30 cents. Makes sense? So it's still a bullish strategy. We don't make as much money to the upside. We have a smaller window. But we're going to have a chance to manage just at a 50% probability of success a little bit quicker. In my eyes. Okay. Cool. Sound good? I'm running late. Let's just go over what we talked about here a little bit. We talked about market extremes and how we quantify them. We looked at an iron condor that you did on Monday or Tuesday in your one of your original shows. And we did a skewed iron condor today. It's the same as an iron condor. It's just one side as wider. In this instance we have a $2 wide put spread versus a $1 wide call spread. Which makes it a little bit of a bullish strategy. We typically like to collect more than our risk on that one side, which is a dollar. Okay. All right, you got to try to get filled on this spread. Don't worry about stock keeps down ticking so you'll be fine. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace, son. Good work.
Video: 008 - Introduction To Volatility Products 07 21 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Mickey, where do I start that versus bat? You know, I didn't realize something every time we start this show There's this like big hands of picture of just you. I know How'd you work that out? Well, we got some pictures together coming soon. I think okay. All right good Well, gotta shoot a spotlight with me a little bit, right? Yeah. All right, so As we do every day After my show is over at 11 o'clock We do a show in the morning from 7 to 11 Tom Sazofa myself We have a little lunch and then you kind of come buzzing around and What do you always ask me? I give you the kind of the nudges like hey, hey, come on. What's plan? What are we gonna do? What are we gonna do and what I get I have the itch now So I got it you've been bit. Yeah, and since you're on for the first five hours I got to sit up and look at my portfolio page the whole time I can't put anything on I got weight I got weight so okay, I can understand that so let me backtrack for a moment Do you know how long it took me to make my first trade? Three years Why was that for three years? I worked at a job just like you're doing and then saved enough money to open up a trading account saved enough money To buy a seat on the floor of the exchange Which actually somebody lent me the money to and up until that moment all I could do was paper trade like fake trade So you've been at this this is gonna be this is the first full week, right? I mean of actual trades. I think we made a first day on Monday we did last week Friday Friday the week prior but Friday the week last last last week was our first trading for a week Yeah, sometimes you just got to pump the brakes a little bit and Understand some of the products. So what you did to me today was you came up to me said You know what there's not a lot to trade you have a lot more technology than I ever had like I was Subjected just a few stocks that I that I was able to trade on the floor of the CBOE you have access to everything And I know you go through the dough platform and you you go to the high and volatility You want to do that for me if you if you don't mind Nikki you don't have to do it with the other screen for a moment And you go through the high implied volatility just like they're doing on the screen there hitting the grid going up to the The funnel there in the in the middle of the page Changing it you know to high implied volatility and coming up with a bunch of stocks and a bunch of stock really only only comes out to be about Five or six by the time you've done it don't have earnings and you're setting all your parameters that you want So you said to me how about we go to volatility? Let's take a look at volatility you can take that screen down and I said I thought to myself okay It's probably one of the hardest things to understand But if you can understand it from the very beginning from a really high level a conceptual level Then it just becomes any other product just like everything else Tom always has this saying like you know Do you want like the practical application of something and learn how to trade it or do you want to have a sausage is made? Redden rather know how it's made and just okay now Okay, so I'm a little bit of the I'm a little bit different like I would if somebody told me and I believe what they were saying that This is the way to do something. I don't really care like like so what is volatility? What's it made up of I don't think you really care Do you do not I'm trying to say like like um you came up to me and said let's trade Vxx Vxx okay, what is Vxx? It's very hard to understand is definitely okay? So you're one you want we get to trade yeah, and you want to trade something you don't understand because you're anxious and you like And we've we've discussed volatility in how it's been low currently and you know Just as in an intuition You know, I thought okay well if it's hard to find stocks that are in our criteria Why don't we go for volatility which we identify that is low? You're you're spot on what you're thinking and I 100% agree with you and I think it's what we should do Otherwise it would be having this discussion with you today But the first thing I said to you before you made your first trade was what do you need if you're gonna be a successful trader? Do you remember The one thing I think that confidence Confidence how can you have confidence in something that you don't know what it is like you don't understand what it is Does it does it make sense? Yeah, all right, so I'm gonna put up let's put up one slide for you And we'll go through the products the volatility products that I think you should learn about and how to trade So the first one that we're gonna come up here with and it'll pop up there is Vxx Now Vxx it says this and these are just my little Shorten version of what everything is not like how the sausage is made but in practical application Vxx with a stock that you want to trade I put up their first. It's exposure to the S&P 500 VIX short-term futures I don't think you know what the VIX short-term futures are right no, okay great that's good You're not supposed to you get brand new at the next one is UVXY That's an ultra fund ultra just means that it's a multiple typically two or three times the movement So it's kind of like two or three times the movement two times in this example You Vxy of Vxx those short-term futures index again The third product that we trade is the VIX itself and that's VIX the symbols to each one is Vxx You Vxy and VIX there are other products, but these are the three most liquid. These are three that I trade all the time Okay, the VIX is quoted in percentages and translates roughly to the expected move of the S&P 500 now of all of them Maybe I'm speaking for a moment. Well, you tell me of all of them which one has Which one seems more familiar to you? I mean the VIX would be the most familiar because I'm familiar with the S&P 500 so I would imagine that's And from what I read about Vxx it was You know VIX was the S&P 500 and then Vxx Vxx was You know some kind of measure of that volatility. Okay, so I okay Again, how the S&P 500 does really matter to me, but if we can understand the VIX VIX We probably can get to Vxx and then probably you Vxy Anytime you see something that's like a two or three time multiple think about it How do they create a product that can move two or three times something? I mean, it's not it's not voodoo economics. They have to use something that has a lot more risk So as you get more of a multiplier the more risk you have that doesn't mean that's a bad thing It just means you have to understand the risk so you can have the confidence to make the trade So the first one that we should go into is Vxx if we were going to look to make a trade now now VIX is a real funny All volatility is kind of a real funny product. I'm gonna save you making the trade until tomorrow because Vxx and you can take that down for a moment Vxx is quoted off of forward slash Vx Now I think you're gonna have to put up the toss platform because the dope platform doesn't support You could just go and forward slash Vxx is fine So that the IX product we're gonna get to in a moment is priced off of this product now I want to go into this tomorrow and not today because if you notice Reboot it says up there CBOE Volatility index VIX the future and what to say July Okay, July futures are expiring Mean they're done after today. Yeah, so what we're gonna look at on Tomorrow on the Vx futures is going to be August now if you put in forward slash Vx Q5 Tomorrow this will be What VIX is priced off of it's what it's priced off of today also We'll get to the moment's what it's priced off of today But you know, so prices around 14 and a half 14 dollars and 43 cents all right Let's go let's go to do for a moment remember that price of 14 and a half and put in Vx for a moment Sure that could make this trade today. I just think it's it's a easier Conversation for you if we make it tomorrow and and so you can explain it go to the table perfect and stay in August okay On the dough platform just like the toss platform and again, this is why volatility products or so I mean you just learned about calls and puts and iron condors and strangles and now you're getting into a product that's Where's VIX trading at? $12.70 right so so Where would on the if you were looking at this was any other stock where would you be looking for like what's the first strike in the money? 12.5 right the 12 and a half strike Perfect answer, but remember what I told you a moment ago Think about where that was VIX futures are trading at the 14 14 and a half The first strike in the money here is really 14 and a half Because it's in August if you can put a a triangular or rectangle around the August month Because these are August The IX options priced off of the August futures, okay Does that make sense not at all? Okay get out of August So And go to July okay stop for a moment remember we will talk about the July futures a moment ago, which are trading right around $12.80 The computers correct that showing you the 12.5 call as the first strike in the money Since the computer is looking at the July Has one day left so exactly exactly so tomorrow this will be a lot cleaner I want to have this discussion with you today so you can see this this difference between when the option when the Futures expire so you can see which ones in the money tomorrow go back to August They'll be no more July options August will be there and this price won't be 1270 anymore. It'll be somewhere near 14 bucks Okay, okay, so the so because of the futures because the futures so can I give you a can I give you a Like I almost like a trade hack. Mm-hmm. Okay, if you look at the the call and the put that's closest to the same price That's the at the money option in almost any product that you look at you notice how the puts a dollar $25 a dollar 30 the call is 115 120 that's the at the money option If you look at the 12 and a half call think about it for a moment. How can the 12 you know everything? Is it's time and price how can something that has 28 days? Have basically no premium at the 12 and a half line Do you know what I'm saying like the call is two dollars and 20 cents and the put is 20 cents doesn't make sense Does that make yeah? Okay, so if you were going to to be bullish on volatility and you wanted to Buy a call spread in August today. What would you do? I Mean you have to go to the 14 and a half strike price you couldn't do it at the 12 and a half now So we like to buy one strike or two strikes with three strikes in the money and sell one strike two strikes with three strikes out of the money So if I was looking to buy and at the money call spread here with a 50 50 shot I might look at something like you know the 13 16 call spread or the 14 15 call spread depending on how much risk I want to put on does that make sense? Yeah, okay, so so let's Let's review what we will have about a minute and a half left. Let's review what we what we spoke about a little bit here What we talked all about was volatility products We talked about three and really from a high level Vxx UVxy and Vxx I want you to watch this show over again because this is really a it's a it's not a difficult subject, but it has some It has some differences compared to other equity products That's why you have to understand it so you can have the confidence to make the trade Before you actually make the trade I'm going to give you one little trade hack And this is something we talk about all the time a 19% implied volatility equals a 1% Daily move So if volatility right now is about 15% That's what in August futures are saying And this and the e-mini s and p's are 2100 if they move 20 points they're moving more Then they're implied volatility so a normal move should be somewhere around that 12 or 13 Point move which we're having today. Yeah, today so today so today at its implied volatility It's a normal move. Yes, it's been in one direction because it'd be 13 up or 13 down But it's about what the implied volatility says if we move 20 then we're moving outside of that implied volatility 19% implied volatility It goes a 1% daily move now you have some sort of Concept on on reasonable expectations for how much a product should move All right cool. Good job, but you tomorrow you make it trade your first trade in Vxx Who comes up next tonight? What do I normally say peace peace? t
Video: 009 - Profit Targets Vs Days Till Expiration 07 28 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Nicky, where do I start? That versus bat. How are you son? Doing well. I'm doing well. We'll get to my trade, but I've got a little bone to pick with you today. Oh, okay. Go ahead. You know, earlier today, they were talking about Mike's new show, Mike and his white board. That's correct. I was telling you this early this morning. I had a Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday. Okay. 15 to 330. Okay. But Tom made a Slile over mark. He was like, you know, maybe we'll slide it in there and take the bat versus bat time slot and you're pretty quiet there. You're nothing, nothing. I sat there like a subordinate. Yeah, you don't consider that going against the family or what it is. Sometimes you got to keep your friends close and your enemies closer. So we just let Tom talk and everything. Something is all going to be ours, son. Don't worry about it. There's a revolution going on out there and he doesn't see it. Okay. All right. So listen, you wanted to make a new trade today. I want to review a trade that you put on yesterday and took off today. Let's try to do both and let's try to do them in a quick fashion. Okay. All right. Let's go. Let's just use the other platform and let's put up, let's put up dough for a moment. Let's use that screen for a second. All right. Let's go to tiles like we always go. The grid. You mentioned to me, we've already set up the same way. We found FCX. All we did was we went to the, like we do every day. I find this is that every day I look to find a trade. The first place I go, the first place I go is right here. And then I click on the funnel and I change it to what I want. We're going to stay in the front month in August. So I have 24 days to exclude all the earnings. Have the earnings excluded. That would be the little arrow, the little blue circle up on top there. That's perfect. And then I go from IV rank of 50 to 100. Okay. Spits out a list for me. You liked, you picked, not me, which stuck? I was looking at Monsand. It was actually down, I mean, like it's been up and down all day today, but it was down like seven cents from the open price. You know, when I was looking at it, it moved up a little bit. But you know, it's one of those that are on an optick. It's relatively low in terms of its position in the, you know, over on the last 52 weeks. It's close to the all time low in the last 30 days. It's kind of gone from, you know, 105 to 110 down to 100. 105 to 110. Go ahead. 105 to 110 to 100. You know, it's kind of been back and forth. So it's like right in the middle of that range now. And so I figured we would make a plan it. Okay. I didn't understand everything that you said there. For the reasons why I did it, I wish you would have said, high IV rank 80%. Well, that's always, that's what we're looking for. That's what we're filtering out is high IV ranks, no earnings. But all that other crap you spewed means nothing. I mean, it really means nothing because you have no idea where it's going to go. Any more than I have any idea where it's going to go, but you got a high implied IV rank 80%. What strategies can you use? I want to know. Hold on. This is important. Not went down to you said it's seven cents. It's actually been below $100 today. It's had a $1.5 move or something like that today. So all that other stuff, all color, that's old. No, no, I mean, I'm trying to be honest. I'm trying to be funny, but those are the things that I'm looking at it in deciding on why I want to pick this. I know, of course, IVR, all those things. I only have 30 years of doing this. Here, you do it. You show, you show us. What do you have in it? You know, at least some kind of opinion. No, I'll give you your opinion. No, I don't mean your opinion. Mechanics? Yes. I agree. I mean, I don't have that other stuff that you did. That's just bullshit. No, no, I'm being serious with you. That's just like saying, you know, China's down 4% last night. What do you think the market was going to do today? I would have probably said lower. I think 90% of the people are the majority of the people who have said probably, markets go last time China was down 4% we went lower. Why would we go? It's all bull crap. What you have to do is find the right strategy to fit what's going on with the stock that you want to trade. You have Monsanto. It's down. Let's take a look. It's down about seven. Let's go to a chart on toss for a quick second. So it's down about 6%. I was going to say 7%. It's down 6% over the last 10 days. It definitely has a high implied volatility rank of 80%. What kind of strategy can you use in the stock? That's the mechanics. So what are you going to do? I want to sell and I want to sell. You want to sell premium. Yeah. So when you say sell, that means you want to get bearish on the stock. You want to sell some sort of premium on the stock. Yeah. Okay. I was thinking a strangle on it to sell both the put and the call. Perfect. So you want to go to the curve view of the table view. It doesn't matter to me. I usually like to start at the curve view. All right. Let's go to the curve. We're going to stay in August. Okay. A classic strangle. What delta are you looking to sell on each side? I believe I told you this with the maybe I didn't. I don't think so. I probably didn't. Okay. So I'll give it to you. A classic strangle that we want to sell typically one standard deviation. So go back to the strategies for a minute and you got to get a September where you can change the settings in a minute. Go to strangle, open up the advanced settings. Use that expiration to 24. You can just click on one standard deviation if you want and click on go. Okay. So it brings up the 95 put and the 109 call that's with 24 days to go in August. Just as a guide, we want to collect at least the dollar. How much are we collecting here? 104. 104 is the mid price. It looks like it's about a 4 cent wide market. One dollar bit is the natural bid. 108 is the natural offer. Mid price of 104 typically gets filled around 50% of time. So you might have to move it a penny up or down depending on whether you're buying or selling it. We like to collect the dollar and we like to collect the dollar when there's at least 45 days to expiration. Now there's 24 days to expiration. So the one standard deviation, those two white lines are going to be a little tighter than if it was 54 days to go. If you look at September, September standard deviation is going to be wider out. Does that make sense? There's more days. There's more time. There's more time to it. So this is a perfect fit for the strategy that you want to do. Now this is not skewed in any way. The stock is basically in the middle. The stock is 101. The put is 95. So how many strikes away? Six strikes away. And then it's eight to the... I guess seven to you. Round it to 102 because it's seven. Seven and change. So you can say you have a little bit more room to the upside than you do on the downside. Does that make sense? Yeah. That's a classic strangle, a classic price that we like to get. You're going to use about $1300 in buying power going out that wide in this stock. Okay. I'm coming back. So I love it. I think that's a good play. All the other stuff means nothing. If you wanted to say, hey, high implied volatility, IV rank, and I want to be bullish. So I want to move the put side up further. I say perfect. You say high IV rank, and I want to be bearish on the stock. I would say, well, you know what, stocks had a six, seven percent move down. We typically like to play a little bit of a contrarian role. I would kind of shy away from that trade. Let's go a little bit more neutral just so that I can instill my will on you and my thinking so that we can move on with the learning process. But I like what you did there. But I don't like the way you sold it to me. You know what I'm saying? It's so easy. All that other stuff is just background noise. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. Move the strikes out one. Just go wider. See what happens. You can click the thing too on top. Okay. Perfect. If I said we were going to do this strangle, what would you tell me? Has a higher probability of success than the last one? Yeah. I mean, it just, the premium that we're getting is not perfect with the risk. Stop right there. Stop right there. Your father, mentor, the guy who wipes your butt and change your diapers, who wipes your nose when you were three and is now looking to show you how to trade says a dollar is what I need to collect. Yeah. So that doesn't fit. Move it in two strikes. What's wrong with this trade? Can't get filled on the call. But why can't you get filled on the call? Let's get in it. It'll look liquid. You've got the little, oh there we go. It came back. That's okay. That doesn't mean you can't be filled. That just means the market's a little bit wife what we like. So you'd have to take a second look at it, which is a great catch. I didn't see it. But what would be wrong with this one? If anything. If anything. I mean, it's slightly inside the standard deviation. So I mean, we like to be outside the one standard deviation. So. But you could do it. I'm saying like it doesn't, it still fits. You could go closer, closer, closer. It all still fits. It wouldn't have as high probability of success, but it all fits. All right. Let's widen the strikes back out to the standard deviation that we had a moment ago. 95, 109. Let's just put this in at 104. And if we have to move it, you'll go down a penny or two. Cool. All right. I want to, since we did that, I know you want to put on the trade. I want to talk about something that you did that doesn't happen in the short time frame that you were able to do yesterday in FCX. Yeah. So let's take a quick second to review what we did yesterday on a covered call. A covered call is just like any other type of strategy that we put on. We like to, we seem to have our profits, our 50% target at around 20 days. It's like a magic number, like 20, 23, 18, 27. Somewhere inside that 20-day timeframe on average, we have a chance to collect a 50% of our max profit. I should have wrote max profit in there. Okay. That max profit, there's only one way to figure it out. In FCX, you paid 1061 for the covered call, meaning you bought stock and you sold 11.5 call. I did the math up here for you. Where do I get the 11.5 from and where do I get the 1061 from? Well, the 11.5 was the call. So that's where we would be selling our shares at that price. So the amount that we received in premium minus the price of the stock when we bought it was or minus the call strike is where our max profit is. You can't make any more money over 11.50s, what you're trying to say. Yes. Right? So that's our max profit. We paid 1061. So we have risk from 1061 because we can't lose anything more than what we paid for it. So 1061 is our max, what we paid for it, that's how much we can lose. And we can only make up to 11.50. So we can only make that difference, which is 89 cents or 89 bucks. Today, FCX had a nice move up of around $1.20. You had a profit in there of not your target of 45 cents, but you had a profit in there of around 44%. You told me you did the math. Yeah, I was like 44%. 44% of the max profit is. 44% at 39 bucks. Right. It's not like it's not the dollar amount because it's a small dollar amount, $39. You only had $250 in margin being used. Yes. Right? I mean, it was like $230 or something like that of $240. So you had a small amount of money. Over night, you make 44% of your possible profit. You run like a thief in the night. Yeah, I mean, he can't add that much. I mean, it doesn't have there. A covered call is typically a slow moving strategy. You want the stock to slowly move up or fast move up, but stocks don't usually go up a $120, $10 or $11 stock. Over night. Doesn't go up 10% typically overnight. Yeah. You take the profit you run and you never look back. You don't break up the order. You don't try to make it into something else like buy back your call and sell a call higher or buy back your call and sell another call in a month. No, it's a gift. You take it and you run. All right. All right. Good job, Adiou. Good job. Listen, you've been doing this what? It'll be going on two weeks now. No more than that. I think three weeks, I think. Time flies when you have them from your son. Good job, Adiou. All right. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. What I normally say. Peace.
Video: 010 - Revisiting Entry Mechanics Days Till Expirations 07 29 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm going to be a good guy. I'm going to be a good guy. Mickey, where do I start? That versus bat. How are you? Doing well. How was my son today? Son is good today. Good. Well, I'm Tony Batista. This is my son. We're learning how to trade or go into the process. Hopefully everybody will come along with the journey. I also have a name at SNCC. That's all. This is June. Well, my mother is good. Bad Jr. Yes, sure. I've got that. You're not a junior? No. No. I get those on the live chat. I have one guy. That's his name. Abe. Abe. He gave me three choices. Oh, he's going to name me? Yeah, he said, okay, here are your three choices for what I'm going to call you every time we chat. Because he's a frequent chatter. So it was bad Jr. It was mini-bat and then it was bat-in-ho, which is a, like, a Native American term for small. So like bat-small. Okay. I kind of like that one too. I like that one too. Do you know what your name was going to be if it was up to your mother? Tyler. Yeah. You want to buy me a coffee someday? Well, we'll take the Saints name. But that's a good one. Thank you for that one. Yes, Tyler. She wanted to call you Ty. Ty. Oh, that's just precious. Not to rob it today. I know. I couldn't have it. Anyway, how's your day today? Oh, it was good. I mean, it was good. Okay. Yeah. Okay. You've been looking at the market a little bit today. What's the market doing today? E-minis are up about 15 NASDAQ, up another 20. So you've been watching getting kind of engaged. Two weeks ago, when we first started this, three weeks ago, when we first started this, did you ever look at the market before or anything like that? Not really. Not really. And you were in the finance field, right? Yeah. And a finger of the finance field, right? Mm-hmm. It's amazing, right? Like how things can change so much, like something that's been around for basically forever, you know, you don't really like look at it and watch it. And now it consumes, you know, your day while you're doing your other job. Mm-hmm. Two. But you do a good job on supporting everything. All right. So let's take a look at your account today, okay? So the first thing I want to take a look at is, let's just go to Do. And before we find the trade, and we have an idea of a trade that we want to go to, first thing I want to do is always just look at your overall account. Again, we're just going to that, like that green area there, also up on the top left there, where it says that 66% that's your overall portfolio's probability of profit. Like that to be over 50%. Ideally wrapped around 68%. Because that's basically standard deviation. Like to have in a perfect world, is a perfect world. This is not like what happens. Like if it may affect, if you looked at your account two days ago, your green area was more a little bit more bullish because the market had been going a little bit lower. Now it's more in the middle of the range. Okay. So I like everything that's happening with your account, probably with profit, everything else like that. You only have three or four or five trades in your account. So we want to put on another trade in your account. What's the first thing that you would do and what I like to do every time I'm looking to make a trade? You're under the grid. Okay. And then like to filter out earnings and set our IV range, IVR range to be 50 to 100. So we'll do 50 to 100 there. And then the earnings range will be 23 days. So we don't want earnings within 23 days right now. Well, 45 is our, this is what I want to talk about a little bit today. So 45 is our, is our wheelhouse. Now, with 23 days left to expiration, which you are correct in August of 23 days, we're kind of, we're kind of in like no man's land in my eyes, because you have 51 days to September. I don't like to trade the weeklies on a longer term basis, longer term basis for us is 45 days. So I prefer if I could, especially as a new trader, like I'm trying to think about like you and everybody else will be listening to this as a new trader, I would rather default to closer to 45, which would bring us to 51 days. All things being equal. Does that make sense? So let's change that from 45 days to 51 days, which gets us to expiration. Because if we set it to 45 days, and a stock has earnings 47 or 48 or 49 days, inside that September expiration, it would be filtering it out and kind of give us a false reading. So if I go to expiration with 51 days, it's going to have no earnings inside that 51 days. I think it's going to change anything here, but I think it's just good mechanics. Yeah. And I actually had a chat today about the same idea, and one of the other things that I came up with, well, that I thought about was also the liquidity at, you know, wouldn't you prefer to go to the more, if you're in the middle of that range, where you have two expressions that are one outside the 45 range, one inside the range. Much tighter. Wouldn't you want to go to one that has more liquidity? You sure will. But let me, I'll just tell you, the front month with 20 summer days is always going to be more liquid than the back month. Just because at the back month, there are a lot of things. Just more people watching it. And also all the trades that have been made for the last 20 summer days, everybody's looking to make new ones adjust, close, open, tweak. There's always going to be a lot more liquidity and probably tighter markets in the shorter term regular monthly options. Okay. So yeah, you want it, and it's in liquidity as king, but you kind of take a little liberty with the overall rule. Okay. Sounds good. Let's just click on that. Alright, so the top one, new month mining, 92% was actually 100 last couple of days, or close to 100. So it's actually come down a little bit, not a lot. At 92, it's still as high. You'll notice that FCX was 100, it's down to 80. Now that's the last trade that you made. New month mining, FCX, both in the same type of field, gold mining, exploration, worldwide, blah, blah, blah. This stock was actually, have you watched it a little bit today? You actually sent me an IM. What did you really want to say? 30 or 40 minutes ago, I was like, alright, I want to do any, I'm like, I want to do a cover call strategy, it's similar to what we did in FCX. And why do you want to do a cover call strategy? I mean, it's in that, obviously, the IVR is high, so, you know, selling that short call option, you know, I'm getting high premium value for that. Okay. And then it's a lower value stock price, so I'm not, it doesn't cost me a ton to do it. I mean, it would be... Perfect. Perfect to sit, man. High implied volatility, low stock price. Perfect. That's all simple, some stuff. We're going to have to complicate it. It's perfect. It did great. Okay, so if we had an FCX trade-on, which is basically in the same field, and you already have a gold iron condor trade-on, then I probably wouldn't be looking at this trade. I'd be trying to look at something else. Makes sense? Yeah, just to not have all our X in the same type of... Co-co related. Co related. Co related portfolio. Makes sense? All right, let's double-click on NEM. I always take the Wizard of Oz when I set an EM. I don't know why. I think it's an NTM. You know, I'm going to have to deposit it. Okay. Strategy, you said covered call. So let's click on strategy. And let's go down to covered stock. And you can see in the advanced settings there, if we're in the right month, you can change it if you want to. So let's make that 45 days. And as long as you have the weeklies unclicked on the right there, it's going to default to the closest monthly to 45 days, which is going to be September. So you can always have that set at 45, and I guess we'll do the math for you. Okay, let's click go. So we're looking to buy stock. That's the gray one... I'm sorry, the green one, that's kind of like a little bit lighter, just to show you that you're buying stock. So the 1663 is probably the mid price or the offer. And then you're looking to sell the 18 call of defaults to the first call out of the money. Totally a complete and good setup. 1655 is what you're paying for it. So what do you think your break even is? Put a circle of something around 1655 you could. Is 1655, that's my break even. All right, it's perfect. Not a trick question. I'm not trying to trick you anything else like that. You can also see where that red line is. And if you click, I think if you click that dollar sign, it'll also tell you how much like your buying power is, but it tells you your break even. Now your buying power on this is not $1,600. We don't have access to your back end in your account. So we default to the highest that it can be. And that would be like an IRA account. You'd be spending $654. And the highest here is the max loss. So I mean... You're highest here is $1,65. This stock could go to zero. I mean, it's been around since the 1900s. It could go to zero, but I doubt it. The brokerage firm holds about $300. No, excuse me, for a covered call about $500 to make this trade. Okay. All right, so you're risking $500. That's what I would think my max risk is to make how much. It'll be whatever I'm selling the call for. So 105. Plus... Plus... Well, you know what? Let's just do the math for you. Just click on it. All right, so your max profit on here is going to be $146. It's the difference between where the stock is right now. It was around $17.60 or something like that. The call strike, which is 18, so that's 40 bucks, plus the 105 or 108 that you are selling the call for for a total of 143, 145, depending on how the stock is moving. So it's not just how much you're selling the call for because you're low on the stock. It's the difference between the stock and that call strike. Remember, the strike is where somebody is willing... You're getting somebody the right to buy your stock at. So you're giving them the right to buy it at 18. It's trading at $17.60, so you can make $40 there. But you're charging them some sort of premium. That premium was the $105 for the call. So you can make a total of around $145 on this covered call. All right, unclick that for a quick second. And we're almost running out of time. About a 60%, 59% probability of success. This is the classic thing that we did last time, classic covered call. Can I show you what Naked put for a moment? Okay, let's just unclear this and then sell the 17 put for me. Okay, so the 17 put has about a 65% probability of success. Slightly more. You're selling this for 93 cents. So what's your max profit? 93. 93 cents. What would be your break even? It'll be at whatever the strike is now minus the 93 cents. Which brings you to $16.07? Yeah. Right? Yeah, $16.70. $16.07. No, $16.70. We're at 93 cents. Stocks at 17.61. Ah, forget about the stock. You're not doing anything with stock here. You're just selling a put. A put when you sell a put, an easy way to think about it is, somebody can put stock to you. They can put stock to you at your strike price, which is 17. But you're charging them premium. You're charging them $93. So that $93 is yours. That's yours to keep, yours to have right now. So if somebody puts stock for you at 17, but you charge them $93, you break even 16.07. Okay. Now just click the button for a quick second. I mean, it does all the math for you. It's all here for you. But it's so much better. Like, I used to hate the Analyze tab on toss, because people would use it as a crutch. If you could do the math and understand it, well, if you could do the math, then you understand it. If you look at a picture, it's a great visual. But I'm not sure you understand it. Does that make sense? Because just read off a calculator. All right. So let's go back to that trade. Which one do you want to do? Let's weigh them out. One, you make around $93 on, but you have a 65% probability of success, and a lower break even, which is good for you. The other one, you can make $145, have a higher, have a lower probability of success, and a lower break even point. Meaning, I shouldn't say lower breaking point. Your break even is closer, meaning, you're higher probability that you can get touched. I mean, honestly. This one uses $300. The other one uses $500. All things being equal, there's not a huge variance. You're 100% correct. Yeah, I would go, in my opinion, because I want to take a little bit more risk. I would go at the cover call, and give myself a little bit more, a little bit more potential profits. Perfect. There's no wrong answer, because the setup, the mechanics work. So let's take a quick second here, and let's just kind of review what we went through. And the only thing that we tried to discuss here today was a difference between a covered call and a short put, naked put. They're both bullish positions. They both want the same thing to happen. They've both very similar in break even points. One was about $0.50 higher than the other one. They both use around the same amount of money. They both use around $1,600. The caveat I would put towards this, you're in a margin account. So it's about the same trade. If you'll as in an IRA account, I'd probably do the covered call, because it uses just about the same amount as buying power as the naked put. But the covered call I can make $145, and the naked put I can only make about $94. Make sense? Yeah. Good job, buddy. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. What do I say? Peace.
Video: 011 - Neutralize Portfolio Beta Weight 07 30 2015.mp3
Transcript:  We're back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat. How are you son? Doing well today. How are you? Very good. Why are you doing so well today? I was a little excited when during the new research segment this morning they did a new new month on a call. Which we placed yesterday. Correct. So that they validated what we were going through and one of their picks that they had on a previous show. I agree with you. I look at this kind of melancholy on that trade because they were getting in at a better price. It was because the stock was down about 30 cents or so. When they placed it, I think your accounts actually do not care. I think that new month mining trades only down small. Let's take a look if we could. Okay. So you're down small. It looks like in new month mining. Okay. All right. It's okay. Right. Overall position is doing pretty good. You're up about about $115 or so. You're down a couple bucks today about 30 bucks or something like that today. All right. You've got. You've got an overall basically delta neutral position to be favor. Unclick. Click everything back on just so you can see all of his positions. Great. And close up the. Tighten up the window up. Thank you. Open up one more time. They go on the right hand side there. It shows you a beta weighted delta. Is your short two delta. I consider that extremely flat. Because you're extremely flat, let's look at that green curve there in your risk profile. You obviously make a little bit more money on a couple of your positions if we go a little bit higher. Okay. So yes, you're neutral. But you really got kind of a bullish stance a little bit. So I want to neutralize that a little bit. But you wanted to put on a trade. So I want to look at what you want to do because you found it. Yeah. We're I mean, we're comparing the difference between just selling a naked put and doing the short call covered. Stock yesterday. And how they were like similar buying power. And so one of the things that I was looking at was just like where I would, you know, somebody I would sell put in. And keeping with what we've been doing and just kind of like, you know, staying mechanical, I pulled up the grid and, and you know, searched through. For stocks with no earnings in the next 45 days. And so you used high volume, right? Because I usually use the notable list, which is fine. Yeah, I like to use the high volume. You can make your own list in here also. I mean, you can cure it your own list. But okay, go ahead. Well, I mean, the notable stock list, those stocks also appear up here. If you use the high option volume, I mean, it just for me, it just gives me like a bigger group. It is. It is a larger amount of stocks. Yeah. Okay. Cool. And so the one that I was looking at was CNX, which is a coal energy mining, you know, group they are an energy sector. And I've got a ton of gold positions or not a ton, but I've done three gold positions so far. And I got a couple. What do you mean by three of an iron condor in GLD, right? Yeah. And we had the FCX position that we closed out. Oh, that was our gold. So we've done three things in gold. So I figured I would do some some energy. And when we were actually looking at this, it was down 17 or 13 cents on the day. And it's been since I pulled it up. It's been moving up. But. Okay. So you got a high, high implied IV rank stock, 95 percent. Some I tight liquids, not a stock I trade all the time. Lower price stock, 16, $1.74. You want to sell a naked put. Stocks been beaten up. I can remember correctly, it's been beaten up a lot. Probably been cut in half the last year or so. So you want to catch what we call a falling knife, which is perfect. I mean, I like that. I mean, I can't buy the trend. I'd rather get it at a discount. That's the way that's the way I look at it. Yeah. Okay. So there you go. Yeah. So it's definitely been taken last year from 40 down to, you know, 16 or 17. Okay. Sounds great to me. Let's do it. So let's double click on CNX. And you want to stay in September. Yeah. I want to do the 50 day of the September monthly. And you're just going to sell a naked put. Yeah. Okay. So in the advance column, you can you can set it to a probability of being out of the money that you kind of want. So let's go to 75% and see what happens. Want to? Okay. Okay. Let's remove the weeklies too so that it goes. Perfect. Good catch. To the closest monthly to 50 days, which is September, I think September is exactly 50. It won't click for some reason. All right. We'll just click go if we have to move it. It might not have any weeklies. I think that's the problem. Okay. Doesn't have any weeklies. So it won't let you click off the weeklies. All right. So it brings up the 12 puts 36 cents. Does that seem like an acceptable credit to receive? No. I wanted to be in at 14. Okay. That was the one that I was looking at. Okay. It's been flipping in and out of liquidity. And you're talking about the little circle there or the little. Yeah. The range of water drop. Mm-hmm. The little orange one. And so it's been kind of dropping out of liquidity. I mean, I figured, you know, if we put it on and it doesn't get filled, it doesn't get filled. And so what's the only thing that you can control? Entry. Is your entry. So you know already that the markets are a little bit wide. Not extremely wide, but a little bit wide. I get it. Stocks are rallying up a little bit. So there's no reason why you have to put it in at mint price. You can put in any price you want. Mm-hmm. So why don't we go above the market? Let's click it up to around 74 cents. Okay. So now we'll put it in at 74 cents credit. So the stock is going to have to move. Let's see. The stock is going to have to move about about 23 cents or so for you to get filled. I'm just going to buy the delta of the option. Okay. Does that sound good? Yeah. Okay. Or volatility will expand a little bit. Mm-hmm. Stock goes a little bit lower, volatility expands a little bit. Okay. All right. All right. Beautiful. Let's push it through. That's just $1300 in buying power really only takes a couple hundred dollars in buying power. That's a fewer than IRA type account. Okay. And I'm told that color is fuchsia. I don't know what color I would call it, but they tell me that it's fuchsia. Did you use the yellow one? Yeah, I think so. I don't know. Isn't it like fuchsia like a purple red something? No, okay. He told me it was fuchsia unless I'm lying. She was lying to me. It was a bit of a cruel joke for four years. I don't know. She had the big box of crayons growing up. Yeah. Austin Batista's had the 10 pack, right? The red, blue, green, black. That was it. And there's a joke. I'm not going to say it. All right. So I've got a- No, I know. Who's kidding? I had the 74 pack with the sharpener. I was going to say it with the sharpener in the middle. Yeah. It was so jealous of that. All right. So I have a trade for you. Okay. So going back to your overall risk graph, we had a little bit, you had more profit to the upside. And that's really a butterfly that you have on. It's enough fair to micro-manage your account when you have, you know, a limited amount of trades off four or five trades. All right. But let's go along with the whole scenario because we're building it, right? All right. I got a- we're at market extremes. Near highs. We've had a nice rally. I want to play the contrarian role again. I want to go into- I want to go into a- an ETF that's going to benefit from a down move, something like the spiders. Now, I want to- we can just- for the sake of saving time because I know I'm about seven minutes. Um, let's just go to the trade page and SPY. And just from this trade page, you tell me what- what you see. Um. I mean, it's not too much on the screen. There's no option pricing. There's nothing else. I mean, it's low IVR. Perfect. Stop right there. So we can't use all of the strategies that you've already done so far. Because all of the strategies that you've done have been for- Hi, IVR. Okay. Situation. So I've got a- I have got some interest- interest here, okay? I didn't want to go horizontal, meaning two different months until I explained to you what a calendar spread is, and a diagonal spread is in a little more in depth. Maybe have some cards to support it. So I want to show you a trade in just one month that's similar to a trade you did a butterfly, but it's kind of what we call skewed. And you can skew a butterfly in many different ways. Do you remember what a butterfly is? Well, we did the one in Netflix where we skewed- And we still have it on. Yeah. Oh, and we skewed it to the upside where we had an embedded short call. To the downside, actually. We skewed it to the downside. So there was no risk to the downside. It was only to the upside past our longest strike. You were 100% correct. We did a- we bought a call spread that was a little bit closer to the money. Five dollars wide and sold a ten dollar wide call spread. So we had no risk to the downside. But we wanted the stock to actually rally a little bit to 150. Yeah, but kind of stay in that range. But kind of stay in that range. So the volatility contraction play, because you're selling and out of the money call spread. All right. If we have a low implied volatility, there's not too many things we can do. Calendar spread, diagonal spread, or debit spread. Do you remember we talked about a debit spread a little bit? Do you remember what we want to risk one to make one? Yeah. So we're buying, paying for it. Right. We don't want to pay anything, no extrinsic value over the price of the stock. All right. So let's go to- do me a favor. Go to the table view for a moment. And then we'll come right back to the- to the curvue. Because the curvue kind of gives you the answers for a moment. All right. For the sake of time, because we only got a couple of minutes, let's do what we always talk about. The stock is trading at around $211. So we always look to buy an option, one of two strikes in the money. And sell an option, one of two strikes out of the money. Let's go $2 in the money to $213. Let's buy the $213 put. Want to be- want to be on the downside, right? Mm-hmm. Okay. And let's sell an option that's one of two strikes out of the money. Let's go to the 109 put. Okay. That spreads trading for- looks like for about $1.60 in change. Do you see that? Mm-hmm. Okay. So what's your break even on- on this trade? Um, so it'll be $1.16. $1.63 is what you- $1.63. Uh, it's $4.00 wide spread. So it'll be $1.63 less the 2.13. I'm gonna give you a quick little- quick little math thing that my teacher and PS207 shout out to public school 207. Um, in Marine Park, Brooklyn. $4.00 spread. Like- like- I'm- I'm gonna make Tom give you this test that we would give young guys that we were trying to- we asked one question that we were trying to hire. It's a $4.00 spread. Don't make it crazy. If you were paying $2, your break even would be 9.11. Right? 2.13 is- is- is the put your buy- Yes. Is- If you were paying $2.00 for it would be 2.11, right? Yes. Okay. So for paying $2.60 or $1.63 then it's $11, uh, $11.43. $2.11.43. No. $2.11.43? Here, let's let the computer do it. Hit confirm and send one time. Ugh. I have to send you to my school. So where's the break even? $2.11.38. All right. Oh, it's enough. Oh, it's enough right there. What do you mean I'm- okay, I'm off. I'm a- a nickel. Okay. It actually moved to penny off. Yeah. But that's okay. All right. So you were actually a $0.04. Don't make a difference. That- that's good. It's good, it's good. Yes. All right. It's like horseshoes and hand grenades. Yeah. Okay. All right. So- So the stock is trading at under $2.11 and your break even is over $2.11. $2.11.38. Correct? Correct. So you're not paying any extrinsic value over the price of where the stock is trading at right now. Okay? Yeah. Okay. The my break even is above the current price. Perfect. So let's get rid of that for a second and unclick that. Now let's- let's- let's have a screen. Perfect. Now let's sell another $2.09. Like not to finance what we're paying, but let's sell another $2.09. And buy a $2.07. Put. So make- you can either make that two or click on it. There you go. And let's buy a $2.07. Put up on top. Perfect. So we're making a butterfly out of it. Kind of different. On your Netflix butterfly we had an embedded short call spread. And here we're actually buying a $4.00 wide put spread and selling a $2.00 wide put spread. It brings our price down to a $1.18 from a $1.60 something. So it's going to make our break even further away from the stock price. Do you get that? Because now it's only the 2.13 minus the 1.18. Correct. Does that make sense? Yes. Are you okay with it so far? So what's our total risk on this trade? The total risk is what we're paying for it. The 1.18. Perfect. Awesome. What would be your possible profit on this trade? The $4.00 wide because that's the width of the largest side. Minus whatever we paid for it is the 1.18. Perfect. Perfect. So the difference between the two. So if we paid $1 for it our profit would be 3. If we paid $1.24 our profit would be 280. Yeah. Alright, just try and teach a quick math. Yeah, so we're at 282. Perfect. Perfect. Okay. Are you good so far? Yeah. Let's go to the curvy and take a look at this trade. Oh boy. Not a bad looking risk graph. It's still a 50-50 shot. But the stock can go a little bit lower. It can go almost anywhere down. It can go anywhere. And we don't have any... Loss. Yeah, we don't have any risk to the downside. Perfect. Okay. Let's do this trade. $1.17. Let's just go in at the mid price and see what happens. Who comes up next? Tonight. You did good today, bud. Alright. What do we say? Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 012 - Business As Usual Even When You Will Be Unable To Trade 08 03 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Niki when do I start? Bad versus bad! How you sung? Not too good today my, uh, my today column is not very, very, uh, green. So speak. That's the best answer that you've ever given me to an opening. See because my day always starts and ends with how the market is going. That's how I know what's going on. It's not if the market's going up or if the market's going down. It's whether my account is going up or my account is going down. So what you're saying is your account is going down today. A little bit. Yeah, feeling the heat a little bit. But it's okay. I think you've been here before. It's a character builder. It's a marathon, not a quick little race. It's really haven't been here yet though. That's the point. I've had two small winners, I would say. That's correct. You've only been doing this a month or less, right? Yeah. Okay. Net net your overall and your account. You're up, right? Yes. You're up about 150 bucks on the high end. I think you're up about 80 bucks total now or so. And it's down $80 today or so. Let's take a look at your account real quick. You got the EUNES and P's down 1550. You got the Dow down almost 170 points. You can see how your risk graph kind of changes real quick with 170 point down move or a 15 point move in the EUNES and P's. Your overall beta weighted deltas are still relatively nothing. Yeah. Short six deltas is not what I consider long or short. But if you look at your risk graph, you make a little bit more money to the upside. Put your cursor over the small red area there inside his risk curve. Okay. Stop right there. So it looks like, let's just say the stock goes down a little bit more towards 205 or so. And that's the S&P 500. You'd be down around. It looks like about another, what does that say, about 100 bucks, let's say. Is that what it looks like? It's a thousand and then 2000. So I mean, just. Well, it should say on the right hand side there, I can't select the price 205. You got about 152, you're down about 152 bucks, right? Is that correct? Is that how you would that? Yeah. Okay, I just want to make sure. Now, let's go about the same type area to the to the upside. Let's go to less, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I mean, keep going. Yeah, yeah, right. Go up a little bit more. Right, perfect. Right there. And if you're there, you're up around 450 bucks. If it goes to 210. If it goes to 210. So I mean, you've got SPY around in the middle. What I'm trying to show you is so, okay, so you have a portfolio that's basically neutral. If we stay right here, put your cursor right over the zero, perfect. If you stay right here, you make back about $160. If we go up about $2, $3 at expiration, you make about 400 bucks, 500 bucks in change. If we go down to $3, you lose about 150 bucks. That's trading. But two of the three ways you're going to make money that's trading, not just like picking something to buy, picking something to sell and hoping to be directly right. Does that kind of make sense? Yeah. All right, cool. You've got a vacation coming. You're going to be off for the rest of the week, right? Yeah. Today's your last day of your week. I don't know, I'll be here holding down the fort. Make a sure everything gets taken care of. You're going to join yourself, be on the sun, have some fun. All right, so I want to talk about your account going on vacation and what to do. So you're actually in my eyes going on vacation the perfect time because there's 45 days left, 46 days left till expiration. That's our sweet spot. So that means today for you, it's business as usual. And you actually have to get more than one trade on because you're going to miss four days worth of trading. Does that make sense? Cool. All right, so I've got two trades for you to look at. Let's do them. All right. Okay, let's go to, first one I want to go to is let's go to Apple, AAPL. We can go to a chart of it too if you want to just take a quick look at it. I'm going to kind of go through these as quick as possible. Twitter is will be the next one we'll look at. Okay, a year-to-date chart in Apple is down 10% over the last 10 days alone. Our research has shown that when a stock has a move that's about 10% or more in a short period of time, which we think is around 10 days, we could be due for a little bit of a bounce. Okay. With that in mind, Ivy Rank is 45. It was just above 50, not too long ago. Yeah, I saw it on the grid page when I was playing around earlier in the day. The stock was down about another dollar from here, so it's kind of come back a little bit. It comes back volatility kind of contracts a little bit. But if you notice, like put a circle around the last time it had earnings, not the most recent, but the time back in April. Okay. So what I'm trying to show you is put a circle down, I'm sorry, put it on, you don't do, the tool isn't working. Okay. So if you look at the, in the bottom of the page there, I'm looking at the Ivy Rank. Last time it had earnings, it was around a 50-some-odd percent Ivy Rank. And then it went quickly down to almost zero. Do you see the green line? Yeah, where it dropped. Okay. So now we go to where we just had earnings now. So it's around the same area, maybe a little bit less about 45 percent. Quickly jobs dropped down to zero. And then we're back at like earnings level Ivy Rank. So I look at this as like an opportunity, an opportunity to sell premium in there. Makes sense? Yeah. Alright, let's go to Apple, AAP, I will do it in Do, it would be fine. So what's your go, what would be your go-to strategy, your going on vacation? You have plenty of money in your account to use. What would be the strategy that you would use? High implied volatility, what are you going to do? Well, I mean, we're going to sell premium. So I mean, we could sell a strangle on it or something where we're selling premium or I mean, since the IVR is on the lower end of the 50 scale, what about if we did like another like broken wing butterfly to the upside? You, so broken wing butterfly to the upside, quantified it for me. Like you know how we had, we did that in Netflix where we kind of had zero downside risk. What if we did that? Okay, so stop. If I have zero downside risk like we did in Netflix, then that's actually the direction I want the stock to go. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. So, so if I did a broken wing call butterfly or risk to the upside like we did in Netflix, then I'd have to be neutral to bearish in Apple. Apple just had a 10% move down. I'm kind of neutral to bullish on it. So if I want to do a broken wing butterfly, then I would do it to the put side. I want to put the risk to the side. I think the stock is not going to go. Yeah, so it makes sense? Yeah, so the puts, if we did a pull. It would go, you know, we would have no risk to the upside if it goes past our. That's correct. That's correct. I don't hate that. Yeah. But I'd rather just do a strangle for you right now. If that's okay. Cool. Is that all right? Yeah. Okay. So let's skew it a little bit to the upside since you want, since you, seems like you want to be a little bit more bullish on it. Is that? Yeah. I mean, I'm trying to read you. Yeah. We don't talk about this at a time. Yeah. So I'm trying to read you. Yeah. Alright, so let's go to, let's go to 45 days. It's fine. You click on go. So it looks like with 45, 46 days. Okay. So do you see some of the stock is one, let's just call it one 19. That's the 105 puts that's 14 strikes lower. Are you following me so far? Yep. And we got 109 to 135. You're looking at 16 or 17 strikes higher. Look at the prices on them. We've got the call at 34 cents. You got the put at 92 cents. That's, that's, like I'm not going to sell a call for 34 cents. Does that make sense? Yeah. Does it not, I mean, you're not getting a whole lot out of that. I, I don't think I am. So let's, let's, the 105 put for 92 cents. Let's look at the 130 call. Let's go down five. Alright, so now you're about equal distance away. We got about 12 points, 11 and a half points to the upside. And it looks like you've got about 13, 13 and a half points to the downside. But the prices are about equal. All I'm trying to do is like, you know, like how much am I willing to risk for my reward? Okay. So we got a $1.69. You've got about a 72% probably success. That's perfect for us, right? Okay. You want to skew it a little bit to the upside? Let's see if we move that put from the 105. Unfortunately, they're five, yeah, they're five wide. So we'd have to go to the 110. We'd have to go to the 110 or a different month, a month with a weekly is it? I'm going to prefer, and I think you should prefer even in Apple that has liquid weekly markets, meaning they're about six, seven cents wide, that we stay in the monthlies that are basically one penny wide. So that okay? Yeah. Okay. So we're going to give up some of the strike selection. So you've got the 110, 130, and it's trading for $2.37. Mm-hmm. I mean, I think if we're going to play for a bounce for the stock to increase, let's go with the 110 and take the extra premium. And if we're thinking that it's going to go that direction, let's play that direction. Well, you just took off Costco strangle that you had on this. Yeah. You're going to use about the same amount of buying power that this is going to use. The Costco strangle was about the same amount of premium that you received in it, but the strikes were a lot tighter. I don't know. I think it's a good use of capital or return. Yeah. Okay. I agree. All right. Let's go into $2.37 and you can change it later if you want to because I'm running out of a little bit of time. Cool. Let's go to Twitter. Let's go to a chart of it. Now, this is a stock that we've been long for sometimes and not getting paid, MFGEN killed in it. Yeah. I mean, it hasn't stopped going down since it's like that. Sideways for a while, which has been kind of nice, but this moved down now. I mean, down 20% over the last 10 days, trading near all time lows for the stock. I don't know. Bells and whistles go off in my head that, you know, maybe we're due for a little bit of a bounce here. Now, you have a neutral, a slightly bullish portfolio. You just put on a neutral trade. I want to put on another little bit of a bullish trade here in Twitter. Are you okay with that? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I mean, relatively low price stock. So what I'm going to try to do is I'm going to try to give you like all the little checkmarks that I'm looking at and then see if you can come up with like read my mind what I'm thinking. So you've got decent implied volatility, 44%. If you look at the last time in ad earnings and the time before I had earnings, the IV rank went down to around zero. Now the IV rank is 44%. Same thing that we saw in the Apple. Same thing that you saw in Apple. So we've got a relatively low price stock. You've got a high volatility for the amount of time left. You got a stock that hasn't had an uptick. Let's go to a trade page of it. What type of strategy would you look for selling premium by premium? Selling premium, selling premium. So what type of strategy would you look for? Well, I mean, we just did a strangle. So I mean, we can go to like a covered call like we did on our FCX. So we're thinking exactly the same. Yeah. I think low price stock, high implied volatility, covered call, or naked put. They're same buying power like we just similar buying power reduction. You could make more money with the covered call. You have a higher probability of success with the put. Make sense? Yeah. Okay. You'll decide which one that you're going to do in Twitter. And if you're going to pick one, you're going to look at September, one strike out of the money on the call, and one or two strikes out of the money in the put. Looking to collect around a dollar on the put. Okay. Make sense? Yeah. Between, you know, 90 cents and about 50, something like that. I'll tweet that out after the show. Good. Good. Okay. Sounds good. Let's just take a quick recap on what we discussed today. So the first thing that we talked about was we just went over your overall account. And then we also looked at your own situation. Like you're going on a vacation. Is the rest of my portfolio okay? Am I happy with everything I have? You also have a nice Netflix trade on that you might think about closing. You're about 60 bucks on it. Yeah. Again, it's, you have to go over your account that you have. And then take into consideration, you got 45 days left to expiration. That's the sweet spot. You're not going to touch these trades anyway for a week or two. So if you're going to be on vacation, what difference does it make? Yeah. Business is usual. Business is usual. Very good, son. Who comes up next? Tonight. What do I normally say? Peace.
Video: 013 - Words Of Wisdom Managing Losing Trades 08 10 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Make you a finally back where do I start that versus bat look we're the same color now. Oh come on I think I got you now a little bit Pretty close pretty close if a nice vacation. I did what's the vacation feel like? It was great. I mean great you don't great. Hold on a second. It was great. It's great. Your vacation was great Let's take a look at your account for me. Yeah, my account was not great. That was not great Everything I do revolves around how may account it let's take a look at your account How do your account do this last week? Not good. It was better today, but it's better today Today you're up around 350 bucks, but you lost about $450 $500 total on your overall account you went from up around a hundred dollars 50 bucks to a hundred bucks depending on how things were marked and now you're down $50 today, but you but today's P&L is nice it up 350 bucks. Yeah, it's it's net your down $50 on everything that you close Everything else. Yeah, all right, so I want to do like some portfolio review on because that's how we left Last week when when you left going over everything saying hey, you know We like everything that we saw let's go over what we still have and see if our opinion hasn't changed on that Okay, let's just click on Apple So Apple you have basically a strangle with the stock right at 120 Right in between it's right in between so that's what you want right so you don't see that's an easy decision to make Yeah, right because apples rally four dollars today And you actually have a profit in there of around $65 on the overall trade that you put in so you're looking to close that Actually pretty soon you want to make about 50% of your possible profit. Let's get out of that next one CNX Okay, um, it's one of my dogs. It's one of your dogs you're down about a hundred dollars on the trade to I was almost gonna say like a silly $15 stock, but as you can see any stock whether it's a you know a hundred dollar stock hundred and twenty dollar stock like Apple or a fifteen dollar stock like CNX they all these options can grow teeth Yeah, so you have to be careful them. Okay, so What do you want to do here? So you long about 60 shares a stock at 60 delta's 58 dollars 58 delta's you know when I looked at it It's still got a really high IVR and it you know the one thing that I was thinking was like is there Any thing that we can continue you know sell in there to kind of Help the position at all. Okay, so so what you're saying is and you're on sorry Did you we don't talk about this ahead of time? So did you come up with this yourself? You talked to the team What did you I mean? I was just kind of playing around honestly. I was using the great I want you always to be honest with me on this. Yeah. No, no I don't ever I don't ever want you to have to say again to be honest with you because that implies that you're not being honest other times So I want you to be honest with me forever on this show always okay But I was looking at like selling if we could sell a call and add you know more premium You know call is is the opposite way and they would create a strangle. It's still be outside my You know my two stripes, but you know I was collecting a little bit a premium there then if it goes up a little bit you know Stop stop. I like exactly what you're saying don't don't put yourself in a wormhole So what you're saying is I have 60 shares of directional risk 57 and change Okay, you know you have one contract so it sounds small if it was 10 contracts it'd be 570 same kind of risk You know your account would probably be larger, but it's the same proportional risk So 57 shares might sound like small 570 might sound like a lot. They're basically the same thing Okay, so you're saying is I'd rather get rid of some of that directional risk and add a little premium because CNX still has a high IV rank. Yes. I like it Let's go into let's go to the trade page and go to CNX You've got a 92% IV rank totally fits your lucky that you still have 39 days left to September So you're kind of in that same type of time frame that we would open a trade So you have a lot more the lack of a better word you have a lot more options to do like you have a lot more things to do If this was 11 days to go It's like it's closer role You know like you can't sell anything because you know the opposite would be trading for 20 cents 10 cents or or nothing even make sense Yeah, okay, so let's look at what we can do so the first thing I would look to do is well What's the first thing you would look to like what's called you want to do? What kind of strategy would I want to do well you said you want to sell a call against it right? I mean I was looking to sell call because I you know what strike The one I was looking at was like the 17 I think there wasn't a lot of liquidity here So in like the same The liquidity is there the markets only three four cents wide the liquidity is there It's 33 cents for the 17 So that I mean that you're not using any more buying power yeah, okay, so it just it just is is that acceptable number for you Well, let's move what are we at it? Okay Just to compare To 76% Well the delta here I can do it here hold on one second So what I want to look at is like what's the delta on that option? So the delta on the 16 option is 30 I'm just rounding you had 60 you'd be cutting your delta in half We like to cut out delta by one third to one half Okay, so that's in there. I mean that would fit the only thing that I would say to you at this point with 39 days to go And you certainly could is if you go below 15 you start getting inverted Meaning that your put is gonna be In the money and your call is gonna start to be in the money if the stock were to rally So with 39 days to go I would love for you to be above 15 So if you were to tell me any option above 15 I'd be happy with it the 15 call has a 40 delta you had about 57 delta so you'd be taking on a little bit more than 50% about 70% of your delta. What do you want to do? Well if I take on more that premium with the with the 16 Wouldn't that give me more opportunity like if you know, let's say that if C and X goes up by 10 or 15 cents tomorrow 15 cents and I'm gonna make a difference. It'll be a perfect play Yeah, wouldn't I be able to like kind of almost scratch out of it? With do you play for scratch? No, but I mean it's delta risk I love it. I love what you're working through it. It's delta risk versus premium received But let's think about what we would what happens if we add this trade. There's no extra buying power We're getting rid of some delta risk So if you don't like the delta risk in CNX 60 delta you can reduce it by about 2 thirds 42 delta's 40 delta's minus the 60 delta's that you have about a little more than half that's the that's the play It's the 16 or the 17 call Personally, I like the 16 call just for the 50 cents versus the 30 cents Okay, let's do that then. Okay, so let's go in the bit is 53 the offers 57 Let's go in at 56 and see what happens. Okay, you can always change it later on. Okay So now all around the world your Tiny little one lot the smallest you can get is gonna change the market For all eternity gonna make this market 53 56 that's your offer No, that's really that's your offer now like you're you're changing Wall Street with your option your trade It's pretty impressive. Let's go back to your trade page. Yeah running out of time ready. Okay, uh GLD That one's finally moved into uh into your range. Yeah, into my room. So you don't think there's anything to do. Nope sounds good to me any him Um that one was in my range too, but it's The price I got it. I was like 1760 something so because it's a covered call. It's a cover call Right that's showing there on doors a covered call with the stock. Yeah, so you're down about 20 bucks on this trade Yeah, so we'll sit okay, okay. Let's go in the Netflix Netflix we've moved outside your range you're down around 150 or 160 bucks on the trade defined risk trade You want the stock to go down about four five dollars. Mm-hmm. I don't know. I think you sit. Yeah, does that sound good to you? Yeah, I mean This it's closed right and I don't want to close it for a loss So we'll say you only have 11 days left to that Netflix trades. Okay, SPY. That's your short delta trade This is the probably the only one that In hindsight, which is such a terrible word you could have closed because this is a bearish position Yeah, you are up around 70 dollars on the trade half would have been about a hundred bucks So you can't kill yourself about that. I mean you might not have kept the other positions you had on if you didn't have this one on Does that make sense? Mm-hmm. Let's get out of SPY TLT dog dog Okay, so your your your your put spread is basically worthless, right? I mean it's two cents That's the one I wanted to put on originally you want to sell puts spread correct you down about 70 dollars on the on the iron condor Yeah, what can you do if anything here? Um, well, it's defined risk so we're not so you don't have to do anything. Yeah, mm-hmm um May I guess you could Get rid of the the puts I mean like so so so so you could buy back you could buy back your naked Put and that wouldn't free up any buying power because you're not you don't get Relief you have relief on both sides. So so you only getting you only have margin on one side So you would be you'd still have one side on okay? So you take off the put for two cents pay no commission for that because if you just put the naked option for under a nickel There's no commission so that's something you could do But then that just leaves you with a call spread that's right at the money What you could do is you could roll the call spread To the following month September and if you could do that for even or a small credit That might be something you'd want to do Okay, so all you're doing is this extending duration Okay, giving you a chance to go Give you a chance for tlt below that's correct. Yeah, a little bit of credit It kind of gives us a little more wiggle room exactly not a lot of wiggle room But a little bit but it extends duration by 39 days because this is gonna be over in 11 days So let's when we're done when you're done with the show. Let's look to roll The call spread just the call side and close the naked put Okay, okay, if you can't roll for a credit just leave it alone or even You're probably gonna have to probably probably a small debit anyway. We'll take a new trade for you because you need new trades We were behind let's go to win wh Oh, sorry w y and n and I'm just gonna make it really simple because or really fast because We'll have about two minutes. I don't want to eat Tim's time um 57% IV rank So it's an orange I mean it's an RV rank range 39 days to go to expiration still good. Let's just do a strangle Oh real wide one. I like the strangle strangle seem to be uh We've had a strangle market. I mean he hasn't really gone anywhere. So 120 90 is a one standard deviation Fine with this you can also with the stock at around a hundred so you're you're $20 if you have 17 that excuse me $16 a weight of the upside and Your only 14 Dollars away for the downside pretty much straight on you can go down to 85 go down to 85 just see what happens You're in the weekly options go to please go to 39 days Thank you Okay, so your dollar 76. Let's go down to the 80 85s Are you at a buck 30 what do we like to get on a strangle at least a dollar? Okay, so it's your decision 120 call 85 put or 120 call 90 put you do it when the show's over Okay, all right, let's take a quick moment here just to recap what we talked about and really all that we um Talked about today was recapping going over your portfolio if you've been away from your portfolio for a week Go through everything. Did you like the pressure that you had on meaning did you did you Um, did your portfolio do well through the market if it didn't maybe you take away some of those deltas Which you didn't see an X Did you like an iron kind of the add-on in TLT maybe not maybe we a role to extend some duration Makes sense yeah, all right good job out of you today and welcome home and your account likes you being home too I know it's good to be back. That was the first thing I told you I was like I missed this Who comes up next? Tim night. Peace Mr.,
Video: 014 - Keep Calm And Know When To Roll 08 11 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm not very good today, but I'm optimistic and I think that's what you should be and I'm optimistic too. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. I think that's what you should be doing. So the strangle for $1.72 is pretty much equal distance away. Yes. Today, the stock is down 4.88 right now. Going with what we did with Costco, I'm looking at the call side and thinking to myself, well, I've hit 50% profit over one day. The call to buy it back is what, $0.40 right now. $0.40 for $0.76, so just under 50%. We're still outside of one standard deviation. So I was thinking that we would roll it down in the same month to the $1.15. Essentially taking that credit, the 50% profit and adding and selling and taking in more premium, a little bit more wiggle room to my put side, my short put, while still staying outside the standard deviation move to the upside. Okay. So I let you talk because I thought, I'd be able to pick up on some things that you got right and some things that you got in my opinion, you should got wrong. Because there's no real wrong answer in any trade that you make. The only way the answer is going to be validated as right or wrong is what the stock does in the future. Okay. So I'm going to give you some guidelines that we have. You just put this on yesterday. You went to a full standard deviation, 38 days away. This is not a weekly option. It's a monthly option, 38 days away. You now have the stock having a big move of $4.50, $4.80. I understand the panic in your eyes. And I like that. I don't see it as panic. I see it as an opportunity. Okay. Fanta, change that to option view just so we can see the delta on the overall trade. No, I apologize. We are looking at win first. Yeah. There you go. Go down and win. Okay. So let's look at the, I love your opinion. I love everything that you said. Let's look at what the numbers say. Your delta is 14 delta. That means you're long 14 shares of stock. You've had positions on that had two, three, four times that amount of delta. And you weren't worried about it. It's because it's a big move today. And it is a big move. And then when you put on a strategy like a strangle, you don't want a lot of movement. And when you get a lot of moving quick, it puts you behind the eight ball, so to speak, because you have a small loss in it. You're down 50 bucks on the, on the trade that you put on for $1.72, $1.70. It's a big percentage move. Sometimes with 38 days to go, we just sit and we let the market be cyclical. The rule that we have, not really rule, the thing that we try to follow is when our strike is breached. Remember CNX yesterday when we were trading it, your strike had already been breached. Meaning we had gone past there. The biggest mistake, and it's definitely a mistake, that you may when you were talking about your overall trade and win is, I have a 50% profit on the call. You can't, it's almost like when people say, you know, I'll listen to somebody when they're talking and they'll tell me, the market opened up down 50 points. Well, the market can't open up and down 50 points. The market opened down 50 points. Then I know you've traded before. Same thing with this. It's an overall position. If you're down 50 dollars on the position, like, I don't care if my left hand makes money or my right hand makes money, as long as together, I have a net net profit. You have a net net loss on this trade. You can see on the right hand side around 53 bucks or so. So it doesn't matter that the call lost 50%. We only cover the overall position for a profit when both sides equal at least a 50% profit. That means once I could be zero, the other side could be a full winner, once I could be 25%, when it does, it could be a 25% winner. We close it all at one time. So if you wanted to move down the win trade, I have no problem with it because there's 38 days to go. I prefer to roll into strength or into weakness. Let me explain. Wins down $4 today. I would want to roll from a place of strength, meaning if the trade was profitable or I wanted a roll, if the stock is low, I wanted a roll that puts closer and collect more premium. I don't want to be chasing it all the time because you seem to chase your tail after. Not you. It's just been my experience. Take today away for a moment and let's go to Apple since it was the other one. Let's leave win the way it is for a moment. You have 14 long deltas. Look at all the other deltas you have at any end. You have 64 deltas. Apple you have 26 deltas. CNN actually got 41 deltas. Three four times the amount of delta. What about those? Because your delta is going to be your risk. Right now it's just volatility expanding and the market moving too fast for you. In Apple you have 26 deltas. That's twice as much as win. So let's take a look at that since you're thinking about rolling. So the Apple trade you put on, I think, what do we say on the fourth or so? On the third. It was about 118, 19th area. The stock was about $10 on each side of the league. Okay. And now the stock is 114. Now it's down $5.60 today. Yesterday it was up $4.50. Had we rolled down the calls the day before because the stock had made such a big move while you were on vacation? We never get that move back up. I mean today you're down, and this is the biggest one that you're down on. You're down $145, $146 on this trade today. That's a big concern to me than the $50 you're down and win. Does it make, like I'm trying to give you good mechanics on what to look at? Now on the Apple trade you still have high implied volatility. Well it actually went up. When we went in it was about like 41 or 42 in the 40 range. And so this was the one that I would, you know, was the other one that was looking at about the rolling idea because the premium is even higher there because we have the higher IVR. Okay. And you know I was looking to take the same concept as the win one and to roll that down. You know, to the, I think it was a 115. To the 115 stock is 114. No, I'm sorry, the 125. Okay. We went down. Yeah, we so we had the 130 call and the 110 put. Okay. So for the sake of time, open up the Apple for a moment. So for the sake of time, you would want to roll down the 130 call to the 125 call. And it looks like you can do that spread for around 50 so much. 55 cents, 53 cents, something like that. Okay. You could, let's think about what it would do to your, to your deltas. You'd pick up about six or seven short deltas. You take your delta from around 26 to about 20 for 50 cents. It's not, it's not bad. And you certainly could. I'd rather do it from a place of strength and do it when the stock is rallying. How about we have a little bit of a rule? We'll see how it goes. Or way of looking at it. We won't touch these until the strike is breached. Until then, we'll just kind of sit back. Sometimes doing nothing is the heart. Like, like, you can only control entry. Remember I told you about like, you know, the only thing you control is, you know, your confidence and your entry. You only can control entry. We did this with high implied volatility. Maybe not the best. Maybe we were struggling to find a trade. So we went as far out as possible. Up until yesterday, this trade throughout all of this damage was a profitable trade. We had a chance to make, you know, 50 bucks out of a possible 150 bucks. We decided not to take that. Maybe that was our mistake. And not looking to do something to enhance or adjust this trade. Now, I don't know what's going to happen to Apple tomorrow or the next day or a week from now. I may be rolling down for the 50 cents might have been better. Personally, if I was going to roll this down, 50 cents doesn't help me that much. I might think to roll this all the way down to the 120's and do it for like a $1.70. Then I would basically be neutralizing my deltas by about, um, almost 20. I believe in myself only long about six or eight deltas. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Like, you got to, I mean, if you're going to do it, do it. Just doing it a little bit doesn't help you very much. That makes sense. All right. So for these strangles, what we're going to do is we're going to do it for when I was, when I was, when I was strike is breached. That's what our research shows. Okay. I'm like, I didn't make this up. This is not, you know, my 30 years of trading. This is my 30 years of trading and our research. All right. So I'll sit tight. It stinks. But I'll sit tight. All right. So I wanted to talk to you about the oil sector for a moment. And if you go to, well, for the sake of time, let's go to, just go to trade page and go to OIH. Now this is something that you brought up to me. And I kind of, I kind of liked the idea. And I didn't know that you wanted, that you wanted to talk about rolling the apple and the net and the, um, wind trade that we just did. But you got OIH, high implied volatility, 67%. You want to go to chart of it for a quick second. Maybe you can even use toss if you want. That's great. If you look down at the bottom there, you've got that IV rank. And if you don't have this script, you can get it from our support team. Just email support at tasty trade.com or support at Doe. And they'll show you how to copy and paste this into toss. All this is shown is your IV rank percentile, 67%. Now we could argue that it's been, you know, 80 or 90% back in January. But this is the highest it's been in the long time. This is, yeah. This is oil, the oil sector. Okay. And the producers like, it's not like actual oil. It's the, what do they call it? Services. Services. There you go. Let's go into forward slash CL just for a quick moment. That's oil itself. Okay. And you can see it basically mirrors the same. So, so it is a play on oil. Oil is at lows. Uh, USO is a real small product going to USO. Also has a decent IV rank, but it's only like a $14 stock. So the option is only about 20, 30 cents, one strike out of the money. Not a lot there do. Oh, IH. Let's go to the trade page of there in Doe if you don't mind. Let's look at, we've done strangles. Let's look at a straddle. Now straddle is only going to use about $600 in buying power. As opposed to the strangle in Apple that used, you know, 15-hundred bucks. Or win that used 17 or $1800. I don't remember the exact number. Yeah. This only uses 600. So if your buying power reduction is one-third of what it is in Apple or win, it has to have one-third less risk. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, like if you're risking less money, you're going to have like a less, uh, lower pop and then... You're going to have a higher... Well, you're probably, the profit is going to be the same. Your return of the capital is going to be so much greater. It's going to be greater. So, let's look at this... So what our research has shown that it was when the IV rank is high, like at a hundred. You should look at a straddle. I'm going to make the argument that this is the highest that's been this year. So let's look at a straddle in here. Cool. Okay. All right. So let's go into September. We're selling the 32 straddle. That's OIH. Let's just tweak it a little bit. Let's move the put to just out of the money. $31.5. This half dollar wide strikes. And let's move the call... Well, let's leave the call right there at 32 since the stock is almost in the middle of $31.81. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I go to $31.32. I'm sorry. They don't have half dollar wide strikes. I apologize. They will in ten days. Okay. All right. So it looks like the whole trade, the mid price is $2.38. On $600 worth of risk. We looked at close this at 25% of possible profit. So we wouldn't want to close this at a $1.40 profit. We'd want to, excuse me, $1.20 profit. We'd want to close this at around 60... 70...70...70 profit. Mix that? All right. Let's go into $2.38. See if we get filled. If we don't get filled, you'll move it down by a penny or two. We'll go from there. All right. Let's take a quick break on what we discussed today. We actually discussed two things. We discussed our criteria on when we should roll strangles. Talked a little bit about patience. And then we went into the oil sector, OYH, found a high implied volatility, change our strategy just a little bit from a wide strangle to I would consider this a straddle, although it's not the exact same strikes. Yeah. It's one strike out of the money, but the stock's right in the middle. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. You okay? I'm excited about it. All right. Good. Let's make your account a little bit better tomorrow. Okay. Do something about that. Who comes up next? Simnites next. Peace. Just move it down by a penny or two.
Video: 015 - Introduction To Ratio Spreads 08 12 2015.mp3
Transcript:  a I got some relief today on some of my positions, which was a good day for me then. Good answer. You're about $108 in your account overall for the day. We were down about that yesterday. So, net it's basically a wash for the last couple of days. Had some big movement in the market today. I mean, probably the biggest movement you've seen in your trading career so far, right? For sure. Okay, one thing I want to talk about, let's put a chart up of Apple if you don't mind. Apple's had a lot of movement today. Stock traded under 110. That's under your short strike. We talked about it yesterday how we would roll down the call if it breached our strike. It did. The stock has subsequently rallied back. And that's cost us about 60 bucks. But if you look at your Apple position right now, you're unchanged for the day. Now, you would have been up $60. Had we done nothing. Which is a substantial amount of money when you're down $115 or $120 on the overall trade. So for this example, that roll down hurt us. You had high implied volatility. You had extreme price movement. You've got to, you know, that's our rules. That's our guidelines to protect the position. Now we sit with it. Makes sense? That's still in the middle of our strikes. You're short to $12115 call. And that's the only thing. No one 10. I'm sorry, one. One 2110. One 10 put. Yeah, the put. One 10 put. One 20 call with a stock at $115. OK. I don't want to talk too much about the trades you have on. I want to look at a new trade today. OK. And I want to look at, I want to talk a little bit about like a stock substitution. OK. So let's go to city group for a minute. And let's go to trade page. I go to chart. That's fine. I'm sorry. You can do it however you want to do it. OK. So stock's down about 3% over the last 10 days. 10 trading days or so. Had a bigger movement earlier today when I was looking at this. So it's kind of come back a little bit. It's not going to hurt you so much on this trade. And I'll explain to you why. Ivy rank of 51%, relatively high. It's been as high as 80% back in March or something like that. But relatively high, especially shortly after earnings. Last time it had earnings, Ivy rank never got above 25. OK. So we've got high implied volatility and not really low price, but not really high price either. I mean, it's kind of in the middle of its most recent range. All right. So I'll think about putting on a neutral trade, but using less buying power. Let me try to explain. Let's go to a trade page on city group. So to buy 100 shares of city group, you'll need about $1,600 in buying power reduction for your account. That would be any type of margin account. Your account's no special than anybody else's that has a margin account. All right. So if I wanted to buy a covered call in here, which would be, well, what do you consider a covered call? Bullish, bearish, or neutral strategy? Well, it depends on what you're, if you're doing like a short cover call, would be a bullish strategy. There's only buying a covered call and selling a covered call. We buy covered calls to open, and then we would sell a covered call to close. We're never going to sell a covered call to open. Does that make sense? Yeah. Buy a covered call that means you're buying stock selling the call. It's just called a covered call. So is a bullish bearish or neutral? Well, it's in a neutral position. You want it to stay in between. A covered call is buying stock, selling an at the money or just out of the money call. Typically, we sell the at the money call or the call with around a 50 to 30 delta. So you have a small range below where the current stock price is, depending on how much credit you're getting for the call. Complicated too much. Bullish, bearish, or neutral strategy? Neutral to bullish. Perfect. I'm buying 100 shares of stock. That's 100 delta's. And I'm selling a call between 50 and 30 delta's. That's going to leave me anywhere between 50 and 70 long delta's. It's a bullish to neutral trade. If the stock doesn't move anywhere, I still make money because it's all a premium I sold on the call. But I really want the stock to fly. Yeah. We do that with new money. We do that with new money. We want the stock to go up into perpetuity because we have a limited amount of profit we can make. We'd like to make it tomorrow. It should go to 100. Does it make sense? Yeah. $1,600 to buy 100 shares of stock. About $1,500 in change to buy 100 shares of stock and sell the nearest out of the money call, which has about a 46 delta. If you can circle it for me, it's a 57.5 call. That would leave us long about 50 shares of stock. Okay. My possible profit on the trade is the difference between the stock price, which was just rounded to 50 is 57. So I can buy the stock from 57 and it can go, I'm going to have to, somebody has the contract to buy it for me at 57.5. So I can make 50 bucks. I'm selling the call. Let's just round up to $1,40. So I can make about $190 on the trade. Does that make sense? Yeah. Total. Yes. And I'm using $1,600 worth of buying power. Okay. What if we instead of buying stock did a little bit of a stock substitute? Can you see the delta on the 50 call? Well, you know what? It says 100 right now, but it really should be more like 90. But let's just circle it. Okay. So the 50 call has 100 delta. I'm going to argue that that's a little bit off because look at the put on the other side. It has a little bit of value. It also has a delta. It has to equal 100. So that call delta of around 90 gives me 90 shares of stock. For all intensive purposes, that's a stock substitute for me. It's going to move one to one with the stock. Okay. Makes sense? Yeah. Because you're close to one delta, which is a 100 share. Okay. So if I wanted to buy that option, I'd have to pay somewhere around parity for it. Do you know what parity is on that option? With the stock trading, let's just call it 57. It would be $7. Exactly. Perfect. So I could buy that call for $7 if somebody was willing to sell it to me at parity. And I would have the same equivalent as buying 100 shares of stock. So instead of using 1,600 bucks, I'm only using $700. I could sell that same out of the money call, $57.5 call for $1.40. I'd only be buying a call spread. My risk would only be what I paid, $7, minus the $1.40 or around $5.60. So I turned $1,600 worth of buying power into $5.60. Does that make sense so far? Because you're taking the $1.40 off the top. Typical vertical spread, but like stock substitute because you're so deep in the money. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Your break even would be around $65.40. The difference between the price that you're paying for the spread and where the stock is. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. So far, we're good. You've done this before and okay. Nobody's going to sell us that call at $7. They probably want more. Why? Because if it's only worth $7, why wouldn't someone they sell to me at $701 or $702 or $704? I mean, if you're lucky, but there's probably more extrinsic value than there, than that's just at $7 because there's time. Exactly. The put is worth something. So for me to get 100 delta's, I'd have to buy the call and sell the put. Does that make sense? Yeah. Because you're the 8 delta's there and then... So I could buy that call if I could for a parry would be around $7 and yeah, I'd call it about 20 cents or something like that, maybe a little bit less. Okay. Does that make sense? And then you get another 20 cents for the put side. Well, I'm not going to do anything like that because I want to buy just that call and I'm going to give up that 20 cents or that 23 cents or that 22 cents to somebody else who's going to sell me that call and then go and sell that put so that they do whatever they want with it. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, did I lose you? Yeah, I'm a little lost. Well, nobody's going to sell to you at parry, right? Yeah, because it's a scratch. I mean, you know... Well, they have risk. Yeah, they... But then not to have risk, they have to see if I... They sell you the call, they're now short 90 shares of stock. They have some risk, a lot of risk. Yeah, they have 10 shares of risk. Exactly. So they've got to do something against that. The way that they could cleanly do it would be to do something with that put. They would have to buy that put. They'd have to buy that put for 20, 21 or 22 cents. So they'd be locking in a 20 cent loss. Does that make sense? Yeah, so instead of doing that... So they're going to be willing to sell you that option probably at $7.20. Yeah, so as opposed to having to sell that put... Excellent. That's correct. So now they're... So now they're long, the free put. Okay. At... That's trading it around 20, 21 cents. Okay. I'm just trying to... I'm trying to get you ahead on how to price an option. Because look at the market on that. $6.57.30. It's wide. It makes sense? Yeah. Okay. So what if we bought one call and the 50 call and sold two of the 57 and a half calls? What would our delta position be then? Almost at zero. I mean... It would be... Yes, exactly. So let's show one, two, or five deltas or something. We're getting 46 there and then the 190 something on the long option so that it's canceling them out. Exactly. So on the covered call, let's go... Let's back check. I'm trying to show you all the differences and the difference between all the different trades. Okay. On the covered call, we had risk below our short price... The price we paid for it, which was around 55 and change on the stock. About two dollars lower than we're at trading right now. Okay. Not bad, but we have risk all the way to zero. Here we have the same risk all the way to zero, but we're only paying $4.15, which means our break even is 54.15. Okay. Does that make sense so far? Yeah, because we're taking the premium... The difference in the... Two times. Yeah. ...the amount of premium. For the same buying power of a covered call. So what's the give up? The give up is I now have risk to the upside. Let's look at this on the other view. Our risk to the upside is above... It should be like $60, $60 and 60 cents or something like that. Okay. 60... 60. It depends on where the stock is and then what you pay for it. Okay. A covered call only has risk. It's a bullish to neutral position and it has risk only to one side, the downside. Here you have risk on two sides, but you're getting almost a third more in premium. Instead of $2 worth of premium, you're getting almost $3 worth of premium. Okay. For the same buying power. Yeah, and all you're doing is just cutting off your upside. Now you have risk to the upside. You have a limited risk to the downside because your call can only go to zero. You paid $4 and 15 cents for the whole thing. So you have $400 worth of risk to the downside. On the cover call, you have unlimited risk to the downside. Here you have unlimited risk to the upside. Okay. So what kind of trade is this? It's a neutral strategy. Neutral strategy with upside risk. Makes sense? That's the trade that I want you to make. Okay. All right. Let's take a quick review because we ran out of time. So what do we look at today? We looked at buying it in the money call option as like a stock substitute to use less buying power. We looked at just a vertical spread that would define our risk as a covered call would, define our profit as a covered call would, but also define our risk. We'd have no risk to the downside on the vertical spread. Then we turned that vertical spread into a ratio spread one by two. But more as a stock substitution. So we're leaning neutral to slightly bullish, but we don't want it to go above its old high of around $60. Just staying the same range, which is most of our positions. We want the stock to stay inside its range. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. Cool. And you get a third more premium premium for the trade. All right. Awesome. Who comes up next? Tonight. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 016 - Synthetic Trading Strategies 08 13 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm here to play the song. Make it right back. Where do I start? Bat vs. bat. How are you? All right today. All right today. What does that mean? I'm hurting a little bit today. Netflix, that Netflix position, the butterfly that we have on is... Going past your short strike. You had a broken wing butterfly on, right? Yes. Five dollar wide call spread. You were long by a ten dollar wide call spread. The stock was actually below your long strike shortly after we put it on. And now it's had basically a extremely large move, a standard deviation or more, move to the upside. And now it's today with it being up four dollars, it has gone over your break even. So what do you do with that trade? Eight days to go. I don't know. I mean, how do we manage that? We have a defined on entry. We have a defined risk trade. Broken wing butterfly. You were looking to make about two dollars and fifty cents to risk about five hundred dollars, fifty two hundred and fifty versus five dollars. With about a seventy percent probability of not... With a seventy percent probability of risking one... Excuse me, risking two to make one with a seventy percent probability of success. And now stock has gone for it. You sit. The fine risk trade is really not enough. You're not going to roll anything with it. No, up until today you were right at your break even. On a large one standard deviation move. Stock happens to be up four dollars today. It could easily have been down four dollars. Makes sense? Yeah. So we sit. Okay. Let me close this gold this morning. 50 cents debit. So it was a fifty percent profit on it. Right. It was an iron condor. 103.103.103.105.105.108.109. So it was a two dollar wide put spread by a one dollar wide call spread. Stock was in the middle. We sold the two dollar wide put spread and the one dollar call spread for a total of one dollar. So we had no risk to the upside. Stocks in the middle of your short strikes exactly what you wanted. Like you said, an iron condor you want the stock to be in between your short strikes. We closed everything at around 50 percent. You had a 50 percent profit and you closed it. Like that. Very good. All right. So yesterday when on the clothes when we were done talking, we talked about synthetic stock yesterday. And on the clothes they will, I'll have to go over that again. And we never went over it. So I made a slide for you. It's not a test because the answers are going to be there for you. But I'd like to go over with you. So you have it clear so everybody else has it clear. And then we can make move on to a new trade today also using synthetic stock. Cool. So let's understand this so that we can move on to the next trade. All right. So the stock is at $57. We were talking about city group yesterday, but it could be any stock. Just the stock is at $57. Let's think about the counter party for a minute. So you're the counter party. You're the other side, the person who's going to take the other side of your trade. OK. So you sell somebody else goes and in buy because you wanted to buy yesterday the 50 call. So you sell the 50 call at $7.10. The delta on the screen was about 100. So it's definitely stock substitution. You sold a call. Are you long or short? For short. You're short. So you're going to buy 100 shares of stock at $57. Did you lock in a 10 cent profit? Did you lose 10 cents or there's no way to tell? I mean, it's too early to tell at this point. Why? Because if the stock moves the value of the short optional change. Where do you have risk on that trade? Because you're right, but I don't think you got it yet. You have risk to sold the call? You have risk to the downside. Perfect. You sold the call. So the call. Right. That got you short. You bought stock. You're going to be even down to $50 actually $59.90. You're going to start losing money. Yeah. Because that's the 10 cents I got over the. Exactly. Intrinsic. Yeah. Ten cents over parity. You see, so you have, you understand it. You got it. Yeah. So you have no risk to the upside on that trade. Stock can go anywhere and you would lock in a 10 cent profit. Stock anywhere above $50 and you have a 10 cent profit. Okay. So the only way to tell, please go to the next slide. The only way to tell is what the put is trading. The 57 put is trading at 20 cents at that moment. Remember it was trading between 20 and 23 cents. I just rounded to 20 cents. If you had to, if you were the other counter party, you sold that call for $7.10. Your risk is below $50. That should actually say the 50 put. I apologize. We, we had changed that for, for me, in the archives. The 50 put is trading for $0.20. So I've got to go out and buy that put for $0.20. I'm locking in a 10 cent loss. So the fair value for that call that we were trying to buy yesterday was $7.20. Now nobody's going to sell it to you at $7.20. But they might sell it to you at $7.21 or $22 or $23. Does that make sense? Yeah. Forgetting about any type of dividend or anything like that. That's just pure, like, if you're looking at a wide market and you're trying to figure out what fair value of an option is, all you've got to do is take a look at the stock, the call price and the put price, add the two of them together, and you get the fair value of the, of the, of the option. So make sense? All right. Awesome. Fantastic. Somebody wrote me an email. So every time we say make sense, they would take a shot. They'll be drunk within seven minutes of the show. They won't make it to the close. They won't make it to the close for sure. And that makes sense, right? Yeah. That makes sense. You're going to get them drunk. All right. So let's talk about, I want to go to a high, I want to go to a low stock. High implied volatility. Over a 10 percent down would move. We always look for a little bit of reversion to the mean and price and volatility on that type of move down in 10 days. Let's go to a chart of USO. Awesome. Stocks trading 1408 right now. That's my fault I should have had that for you. It's two mistakes I made. The slide, the 57 putt was my mistake. Nobody else's in that doing that was my mistake to apologize. Stocks trading 1408. It's down 12.5 percent over the last 10 days. It's certainly been getting killed. There's no doubt about that. 57 percent IV rank. IV rank spin is high as 100 and here about, you know, three, four, five months ago. But markets move, things change. I've got to take advantage of what I have right now. You've got low implied volatility basically everywhere. Here I have low price high implied volatility. What type of strategy would you look at? If you wanted to sell premium. Selling premiums. Selling premiums covered call, low stock, low price stock. Covered call is good. Naked putt is okay also. I want to keep the whole theme of a synthetic stock. So let's take a look at something that's going to go. And at the money put, if I sell it, how much delta does it have? Zero. At the money put, if I remember the 50 call that you were buying yesterday in city group, that had 100 delta because it was deep in the money. Any, forget about what's up there on the screen. Any in the screen is right. But any option that's at the money has a 50 delta. Delta is just directional risk. It's a 50 percent chance it's going to be in the money. It's a 50 percent chance it's going to be out of the money. That's delta. Does that make sense? So every put that's at the money is going to have a 50 delta. Every call that's at the money is going to have a 50 delta. So let me ask you something about synthetic stock for a moment. You with me? Yep. If I buy a call, I'm long how many, if I buy an at the money call, I'm long how many delta's? 50. If I sell a putt, am I long or short more delta's? You're short 50. So you'd be... If I sell a putt? If you're... I'll do the other way. If I sell a putt, is that a bullish or bearish strategy? Bullish. Okay. So if I sell a putt, am I long or short delta's? You'd be long delta's. Fantastic. If I sell the at the money putt, I'm long how many delta's? 50. If I buy the call, that's at the money. So you're long 50 there too. So you're long 100 together. Synthetic stock. Okay. Okay. Because it's essentially the same as buying the stock there. Same exact thing as the example that we used in city group. Just using a deep in the money option. For pricing purposes. Okay. So if I sold two puts that are at the money, I'd have approximately how many delta's? Long. Long or short. Long. Perfect. Synthetic stock. Long call, short putt, synthetic stock. Long in the money call? Synthetic stock. Two puts that are at the money? Synthetic stock. Got it? Yeah. Okay. So let's sell two at the money puts or just out of the money. The stock is 1407. We're going to sell the 14 puts. Technically speaking, it's out of the money. I'm going to call it right at the money. Just close as you can get. Close as you can get. Okay. Remember I told you on a low price stock? Covered call? Not using a lot of buying power? Mm-hmm. What if we sold a call too? So we bought, excuse me, we sold two puts. We have 100 delta's. And we sell a call. Depending on what call we sell. Let's sell the at the money call for a moment. How many delta's would we have now? Uh, 50. Exactly. Because we're losing 50 delta with the call. You're getting short 50 delta with the call. You're getting short 50. Yeah. But you're collecting premium. If we sold the at the money call, the 14 and a half call, or just out of the money, that's the 14 call. I always default to being just out of the money. I never want to sell anything that has any intrinsic value. Even if it's six or eight cents. That's just me. Okay? I always want to sell something that has no value. Why should I sell something that has value? I traded for around $1.91. Selling two puts. Buying one call. Excuse me, selling one call. Your break evens on this. And we can do it on the curve if you want to. It'll just show it a little bit nicer. Okay. Your break even on this is above, well, it'll say it right there. 1641. And on the downside, you're going to have around 1310 or something like that. 1305. Yep. Okay. What does that risk graph look like to you? That red and green area? Strangle. Strangle. Iron condor. Yeah. It's a neutral strategy. Neutral, but we're taking a bullish. Small bullish. Yes, small bullish. Small bullish. Small bullish. An unliked covered call that has no risk to the upside. This has some risk to the upside because options are dynamic. They're going to move, get more delta, lose more delta. But this has a theta decay component to it that's almost three times greater than just a covered call using approximately the same buying power, somewhere between $5 and $700 depending on what call you use. You like this? Yeah. Okay. I can take him premium. I like that. Good. Well, let's go into $1.81 and see what happens. You're going to confirm and send and send. Let's go over what we talked about today for just a quick second. Really all we discussed here were different forms of synthetic stock. The way to look at the same product, the same trades, the same options, either use more or less buying power to have more or less defined risk, to have more or less theta decay, all to your own liking. Does that make sense? And keeping it in. Yeah, some nice size. And to keep it the same as essentially having those 100 shares of stock. The... You're always going to, if you're going to get more theta decay, you're giving up something else. On a covered call, you have no risk to the upside. On this one, you have risk above $16. Okay? Yeah. All right. Very good. Good job, buddy. Do you understand synthetic stock a little bit more, or at least the conceptually? Like, you don't have to know the nuances of it. You just have to understand it conceptually. Because then you can look at anything. You'll always be able to have a stock position now, maybe a long stock, and you get to a point where your buying power reduction is too great. And you say, how can I get rid of this stock? Use less buying power, but still have the same bank for my buck. You'll know to go to a deep in the money call, and you'll know exactly what to pay for that call because you can figure it out. That's really powerful stuff. You're only a couple of weeks into this. Now if we can get your account positive, it would be more advantage. I know, right? All right. Good job, buddy. You're a day. Even the S&P's up 75 cents, let's hope they fall out of bed. We'll all do a little bit better. Good job, buddy. Who comes next? Tim Knight. What do I say? Peace.
Video: 017 - Pre Expiration Adjustments Bwb Trade Hack 08 14 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Thank you. Back. Where do I start? That versus bat. How are you? Good. I'm a little unchanged from yesterday. So that's how you are. Yeah, how you're counting. Yeah. You're counting basically on Jay. My life is either up, down or unchanged now. So it's good. Yeah. It could be a lot worse, you know. It could be a lot worse. All right. So I've got a million things I want to talk about. But you came up to me and I was sitting on my desk earlier today saying, hey, I got a trade. You said it was in Monsanto. We've been in Monsanto before. Let's go to Doe. I want you to go over the trade that you want to do so I can get to what I want to do. By the way, just take a look at your account before you get to that. Is this? This is just your September positions. It's always a good idea to take a look at like, you know, what you have on coming to your expiration September and August. That was first expiration coming up next week. Exciting. It's a big day and making your bones. Yeah. This is the first expiration. Where the, where the, where the action is. We like to be rolling soon. You only have a few positions left in September. I mean, in August. And I'm actually going to talk about one of them. But cool. It's always good to, you can scroll up or down wherever you have them. Just so there you go. So you have all of your August positions are unclicked and your September positions are all clicked. And this is giving you a probably a profit on those September positions that you have on. Why don't you do this? Why don't you unclick them all and then just click September. And I can be done with this part of this little demonstration here. I'm sorry. Click August. I keep saying the wrong things. And all he did was click on the middle of August there. So there's your August position. So basically what's showing you is you're a little bit long a short delta in August. Oh, short. Short delta in August because your green big area there wants you to go down. Plus you've got those parentheses. And you're a little more neutral to neutral in September. Okay. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. Perfect. You had a trade to do that you want to do in Monsanto. Yeah. So I was looking at the 95 110 put string or a put in call for a strangle. It's a one standard deviation move. So looking at a $1.14 credit right now uses up about $12 to $1,300 in buying powers. Very similar to the trade we put on that we that I closed about a week ago for 45, 46% profit that time. You know, something to add to the portfolio. I like it. I mean, it gives me a lot of wiggle room there. And then you know, it hits all our benchmarks 74 IVR, one standard deviation move, dollar and credit. Okay. So the most important thing you said there, does set it up to give you the one standard deviation move. So everybody can get that. You like the trade because it has a high implied volatility rank of 74% using $1,300 or everything you said there at one arm percent true. No earnings coming right to the head earnings a couple weeks ago. Okay. Hit confirm and send and send. It looks like mid price is one 15 right now. Let's go into one 15 or how about this? It's the end of the day or near the end of the day. Let's go down to a one 14 where it was just a moment ago. And we'll see if we get filled if we don't move it from there. Awesome. All right. Good job. There's no wrong answer. Only time will tell whether the trade was good or not, but the setup fit. Plus you have a lot of money sitting on the sidelines about $24,000 of a $30,000 account sitting on the sidelines you're using about $6,000 of your buying power. So it's not a it's not a game. Got to get the game. Okay. So I've got two things. Do you want to look at an existing position that we need to roll or do you want to look at an existing position that we're going to do something really cool with? I guess maybe I'm selling that one. Yeah. Or do you want to look at another opening position in the queues? Let's do some cool. Okay. Let's save it for last because that'll be my it'll be my it'll be my wrap up. Let's go to the queues for a quick second. And I don't have a lot of time to set this up if I have more time later on I will just go to the queues. I look to the queues I WM SPY and the diamonds. Of all of them the queues have been kind of the strongest. I want to put on some short delta's we've got a market that's a little bit higher today. Going into expiration week of next of next week that's that can typically be a slightly stronger by our own research. Not quite as strong. Well, it's strong typically. Okay. So I want to do a slightly short position but a neutral position. Okay. I want to do a wide iron condor. All right. I want to use some buying power not a lot. But let me just show you what I want to do. All right. So if we were to sell just a naked call in here you can go to nine condor. It's fine. Go to just move the strikes all the way down to one 13 is my short call and one of three is my short put. Very good and you can leave the you can make the one. Okay. Okay. And make that one 18 you can step right there five dollars where I go back up to one 18 and make the put also five dollars wide. 98. It's trading for around one 14. Perfect. Okay. 65% probability of success. If you looked at your September position if you remember what your probability of success was on your overall position a moment ago. 52. Yes, exactly. So this will enhance your position. And we're a little bullish to in the September too is neutral to bullish. And this is a little more neutral to bearish kind of offsetting a little bit. So if you're going to buy a little bit more than one 14 is the mid price it only uses around 300 and click confirm it's a yeah or the other but uses 386 dollars in buying power. Not a lot of money and buying power relative. It's simulating a short strangle so they can feel it. I already account or something like that you're giving up about 30 or 40 cents about 30 40 cents by buying those wings. So it's about a nickel maybe 30 cents 35 cents something like that but it makes it I really like your your buying power. Country buying power down from around 1300 bucks which is the same in Monsanto down to about 400 bucks. Why don't we go in at a dollar 14 it was just their dollar 14 looks like we're rallying a little bit like we said has a little bit of a short skewed to it. Okay. Cool. Good trade right well trade trades in and you've got your Monsanto trade in good good. About seven minutes left. One more adjustment. Cool. Win. Yep. Go to a chart of it real quick. Win's down it. It's getting close to our short. It's getting close to your short strike your short put which is the 90 put but it hasn't breached it yet. Remember in Apple we were talking about how if it breaches the short strike then then maybe we'll adjust down then that's what we did. We're very very mechanical with it. We should have added a little bit more to that. If it breaches the strike or you're out of the money option has little to no extrinsic value go to his win position for a minute. If it has little to no extrinsic value you can just click on it if you want to. Those 120 calls they're trading for around 17 cents. You've put trading for $3.30. It's basically just a short put and win. I know the risk graph can be what it is. It's got a big dollar that's got a 35 delta net. If 35 long delta net. If I wanted to be long win selling a naked put high implied volatility I leave it. That's basically what you have. Yes you have a strangle but it's really just a naked put. I think we have to roll down that call because that call at 17 cents is giving you no help. Let's roll it down. If we were looking to roll it down how much delta reduction would be looking to achieve? We're cutting it. It's a percentage. I remember we spoke about this. That's why I'm here. If you don't remember don't worry. A third to a half. With 30 some our days left to go a third really works. If it was I don't want to say if that makes sense I don't give everybody drunk on a flat out of the drinking game. I don't want you to go. I don't want you to go as I want you to still have the directional risk it hasn't had an uptick since we've put the trade on. Maybe we can buy ourselves an uptick by just rolling down a little bit. I wanted to do that less. You did it and it would have been better. You're right. The second time you said you're right today. Well second time the market proves you're right. No but remember we're emailing about this. I know what you're talking about. If it's not on film I need to keep records. I have emails. If it's not on film I can't remember. You're short the 120 call. Let's go down to the 110. And what does I give you about what is what is a credit to receive there? 35. It doesn't make sense. To roll down for 35 cents it doesn't... The 105 gets me a bar. The 105 gets you a buck but you have to buy back your own call that you're short. About 83 cents I believe. That's where you got to go. So you'd be short the 105 and you'd be short the 90s. Still have a little bit of long delta. You're only reducing your delta by about a third. All right let's go in mid price is 83 cents. Let's go in at 83 cents and we'll see what happens. We can always roll it down. You don't move it down a penny or two. All right last one and the one that I really wanted to talk to you about. Let's go into his SPY position if you could. You've got a really unique trade on an SPY. In SPY we bought a $4 wide put spread by a $2 wide put spread. Deeper in the money put spread and sold a $2 wide put spread. That's why you have that risk to the upside. You paid a $1.17. Okay you're long a $4 wide put spread. Short a $2 wide put spread. Your risk is that long put spread. Does that make sense? Yeah. No risk to the downside you can tell by the graph. Yeah. That long put spread you have on the 7 9 13. What synthetic put spread are you long versus the 7 9 short put spread? Which way would I need what I want this stock to go at that point or are you talking about or where would my... What strikes? Well the 7 and the 9 is where... Short the 7 9 put spread. You're long a $4 wide put spread. The 13 9. Yeah so I'm long overall. You're long a put spread which makes you short. That's why you have no risk to the downside. What long put spread do you have? Where's all your risk? On the 9...well on the 9 13. Yes? Oh which one I'm missing a long one long put on the 13. The 11 put is missing. Three minutes. You've got to... Oh to make it like an iron condor. To make it into a butterfly. To make it you have a $4 wide put spread by a $2 wide put spread. A classic butterfly is equal distance on each side. $1 by $1, $2, $2, $4, $4, $10, $10. You have a $4 wide by $2 wide. So you're long an embedded put spread. The embedded synthetic long put spread that you have is the 213 to 11 put spread. If you sold the 213 to 11 put spread for a $1,17, that's what you paid for this spread 25 days ago, whatever. You paid a $1,17 right? Yeah. $2 worth of that spread. For a $1,17, how much risk would you have in this butterfly? Zero, I'd be down to zero. Exactly. And you'd have a $2 wide butterfly with a chance to make how much in a best-case scenario. Um... I'd be $2 on the short. You'd have a free shot. Well you can sell the 1311 put spread for how much? Let's find out. But less. So the 1311 put spread. 213 to 11. Let's move up to 6 put. The 213 to 11 put spread is trading for a $1,58 mid price. If you sold that for $1,57, go down to $1,57. I would have an extra $0.40 on top of... You'd lock in a $0.47 profit. You'd have a free butterfly. You'd be owning that butterfly with a $2 shot with a $0.47 profit. It's a cool trade. Let's go down to $1,57 and sell this spread if we can. Mark it just rallied, but we'll see what happens. Alright, let's take a quick second here just to review what we went through. I know we went through a lot of trades, but I want to go into that butterfly. Because I think it's really, really important. You have an 80 cent profit on that spread right now. You could close that spread and take an 80 cent profit. You still have another 70 cents to reach 50%. You still could make another dollar on top of that. Or you could take off all your risk. Sell the insinthetic long puts spread. For more than you paid for the whole package, have a free butterfly on it. Anytime you can do something for free, plus make that $0.40. I think you got to do it. Cool. Alright, that one. Who comes up next? Jim Knight. Peace.
Video: 018 - Ratio Spreads Lower Buying Power 08 18 2015.mp3
Transcript:  That was the best part. Yeah, that was the best part. That was the best part. That was the best part. That was the best part. I think we're back. When do I start? That versus that. How are you? Good. Good day for me today. Good day for you today. Yeah. It's been good. I got some movement in my direction for Netflix and TLT, which we were talking about yesterday. Moving in my direction, so I got a couple bucks back at the moment on those. It's nice to get something to go your direction from change. Yeah. You're allowed. Yeah. Definitely. You're allowed. You're counted down around 200 bucks since we've started this about $210. You're up about $127 today. Yeah. So you've gotten back about a third or a little bit more of all your total losses. Which is cool. I mean, again, the point of the show is to learn strategies but also to make money too. I mean, we don't do anything here. We don't want to make money on. So we want to get in the plus column. Very typical for new traders to do exactly how you did. You started out gang busters. Every trade you made was a winner. You were up like 200 bucks. Took a vacation for a week. Came back. Had a swing of about dynamic and he trades for a week or so. Had a swing of around 500 bucks. You were down around $300, $400 at one time. And now your account is starting to come back a little bit more. Number of occurrences keep moving on. You mentioned a couple of things to me at the lunch table today. What did you want to talk about? Well, because with the expiration this week, a lot of my coincidentally losers. But they're my shorter positions in Netflix and TLT. That's PY. SPY. I think those are the only three that we have left in the front window. Yeah. But those are, you know, that's most of my short side of the portfolio. And so my September expiration is generally long. Long to neutral. Long to neutral. So I was looking to get short. The marketer. Get short. Okay. So let me try to wrap it up here for a minute. Your overall portfolio is short about 40 deltas. You want to put up the overall account so people can play along and look at the numbers at home too. So your overall account is short about 40 SPY beta weighted deltas. Do we have it up there? Yeah, do them all. Where's your beta weighted delta on that? Do we have to go to the other view? My fault. What does it say? It's neutral. Almost at zero. Almost at zero. Okay. When I beta weighted it earlier, it looked like it was around 50 deltas. I have it at about 50 short on the August expirations and then close to 50 long on the September. So basically even, even, even, even. Okay. And what you're saying is with your short delta that you have going away in three days, you're worried about what's going to happen to your deltas in the back month. I'll be long 50 deltas at the end of this week. Okay. So you bring, so you bring a great, a great thing up. Let's just click on your SPY position since we just beta weight everything to SPY. And one of the three positions you have on in, in the front month is SPY. Let's take a look at that. Now it's just a classic butterfly. We don't have any risk to this trade. The risk that we have left in this trade is how much trading for right now. We took a profit of around 40 cents on a broken wing butterfly and that's all our risk that we have now. So the risk reward on this looks great, but that graph is a little bit deceiving. It's $100 at its biggest peak. It's trading for, it looks like around, see if we're with the closing trade is about 50 cents it looks like. The spread's trading for around half of its possible profit. It's giving you some short deltas in the front month, which you will lose as soon as expiration goes off, which is in three days, or this position moves away. Makes sense? Okay. So why don't we close that position, take the profit, it's win-win, great trade, and turn it into a different position in September that will give you some short deltas there. And we'll leave the Netflix trade on and we'll leave the TLT trade on. Alright, so this one will be around $90 total. The profit on the overall trade that you put on that's correct. You need about 40 cents before and whatever this is trading at $0.50 or something like that, or pretty close to it. Let's go into $0.50 and see what happens. We can always change it later on. Now you do want the stock to be at $209 at expiration. The stock is $209.81, but that's at Friday, not today. So did we get filled on that? Did not get filled on that? So why don't we cancel and replace it and go down a penny, and while he's doing that for us, what he's going to do is click on SPY, edit order, go down to $0.49, we'll see if we get filled. And if we have to move it again, after the show is over, you'll move it again. Okay, cool. I want to look at a ratio spread. Let's talk about your positions for a minute. Are they an alphabetical? Put them in alphabetical order for me. You can go to the option only view if you want. I'm sorry, the view all if you want. Okay, so in Apple you have a strangle. I just want you to listen to what I say. Apple's a strangle. CNX is a strangle. FCX is a strangle. MON is a strangle. NEM is a covered call, which is synthetic short put. I want to get into synthetics. Netflix is a synthetic. It's a butterfly, brokowing butterfly, but it's a synthetic short call spread. OIH is a strangle. The cues you have an iron condor on. SPY, you have a butterfly on that we're looking to close. TLT, you have an iron condor on, which is really just a short call spread right now, because it's right at the money, just in the money. You're short the 121, 124, with a stock at 123 and a half. And then in Twitter you have a short put, long position. USO, you have a synthetic stock position, short two puts, short one call. And in win, you have a strangle. So the word that popped out there a lot was a strangle. So I don't want to do anything that involves around a strangle. You're also using around $9,000 of a $30,000 portfolio. So I got to keep that in the back of my mind too. One third of your buying power is not a lot to be using, especially with IV rank being as low as it is. I think it's pretty active actually. If IV rank was high, I'd want you to be 50%, closer to 80% on a $30,000 portfolio. So SPY is a big product. By big product, I mean it's trading over $200, right? Yeah. So let's go into SPY. So a naked option in SPY would take around $4,000. Now of all the positions that you have on, you're only using $9,000. All of those strangles, you're only using $9,000 of your overall portfolio. So I want to keep things consistent. What I'd like to do when we're looking at a ratio spread is, we like to keep a ratio spread as buying one selling two. A ratio spread can be any, it could be buying four selling five. It could be buying two selling three. We don't like to get any more than one by two. We will on occasion go one by three if volatility is really high, but we like one by two and we like to do it for a credit. We typically like to buy the option that's maybe one strike in the money, two strikes in the money, and sell an option that's one strike out of the money, or two strikes out of the money. With that in mind, let's go into September and let's look at SPY 31 days to go. You can do a vertical spread and change it if you'd like. We're going to a long call and we'll actually go $3 wide is perfect. And move those strikes down so that my buy is in the money. So 109. Change it. Make it 9.11. Make it $2 wide. Double click on the 11 call and make it two contracts. If I buy one of the 109 calls, I sell two of the 111 calls. I'm getting about a dollar in credit. Now that dollar is not as significant as when we look at a strangle, and I tell you we like to collect a dollar, it just happens to be a coincidence here. I want to collect a credit because then I have no risk to one side. I have no risk to the downside. If I have no risk to the downside here, this has to benefit from a short movement, or a down movement in the overall market, which is exactly what you are looking to do with your position. This is in September, which gives you some short deltas in September. It's a synthetic short call. That's what it works out to be. Now, your break even on this, if you click on the little dollar amount, is going to be just above your short strike plus the width of the strikes, meaning 109.11. That's $2, right? Plus the credit you received, it switched to $0.99. It was $1 before. It gives you a break even of $2.14. That break even of $2.14 has about a $67, let's just call it 70% probability of success. It also relies on volatility down ticking. Now, volatility is not high in SPY right now. It's 21%. But we're trying to get synthetic short deltas. We're trying to get short deltas in your overall portfolio, and we're replacing one with the other. Let's go into a chart of SPY just quickly. Now, I'm not going to make a great case here, and I'm not going to argue, and you certainly could argue that the IV rank is not high enough in here. At a 20% implied volatility was actually a little bit higher before, but at a 20% implied volatility, it's been as high as 60 over the last five months. I'm throwing out the first month there, and it's been as low as zero. It's still on the low end of the range, but I need short deltas. I need something. So we're tweaking it a little bit. Buying a call spread, which is something you were doing a low implied volatility, and I'm selling another call not to finance it because I need short deltas. Does that make sense? You certainly could just sell a call, but I don't think the IV rank warrants it. So we'll be close to 50 delta short on this, right? Because we're the two at the money calls. It'll be less, they're not at the money. It stocks 109, sorry, 209, and you're selling the two at 11. Oh, the two at 11, okay. So it only gives you about 10, 12 short deltas, not as much as you think. They will grow as the stock moves higher. Yeah. What's the best price for this? Where do you want the stock to be at expiration? In between. No, I'll give you a hint. Typically, all the strategies that we do, you want the stock to be right at your short strike. 211. Think about it. The 209 call, this was expiration, 31 days from now, is going to be worth how much? It's going to have no extrinsic value. It's going to be parity. How much would it be worth? Nothing. No, the 209 call. Stocks at 211. If it goes to 211? Yes. It'd be worth $2. Exactly. What would the two at 11 calls be worth if the stock was 211? Nothing. Zero. So the one you own is worth $2. The calls you're short are nothing. You got a dollar premium, and credit in this, you make $3 on a $2 move. Yes, it goes to 211 because then I can sell the long position for the $2-ish. So it's a short position because you have no risk to the downside, but you really want 211. It's not an iron condo, but it's kind of like, you know, it's okay if it goes higher or just not too high. And you break even all the way up to 214. Okay. That's going to use around $4,000 in buying power. That's too much buying power. Okay. So find our risk, but it's really not to find, it is defining your risk, but it's going to lower our buying power significantly. Now, you know, if you had a million dollar account, maybe you do this trade because $4,000 doesn't matter to you. If you did 10 contracts, $40,000 in buying power doesn't matter to you. But you can only control what you have, and that's how much money you have. So let's buy and add the money call. Let's look to buy like the 219 call. Make it like a broken-wing butterfly. Exactly. It's a broken-wing butterfly. I mean, like we start out, I just, so if you can break down all these positions, like we just started out as a ratio spread, you say, well, that makes it a broken-wing butterfly. Yeah, it does make it a broken-wing butterfly. Not in the classic sense, because it's $8 wide by $2 wide. But yes, it's a broken-wing butterfly. It doesn't change your probably success, you know, by more than a percentage point or two. It does take away some of your credit, but you get to save $3,500 in buying power to use some place else. That's more important. That's a lot more powerful for increasing your return on capital by doing that. Let's put this in $0.87 is the mid price. Let's go in at $0.87, and we'll see if, you know what, let's leave it there right at $0.88. It could firm and send its end. And when you get filled on one, we'll move the other one. If you don't get filled on the other one, we'll move in both. Makes sense? Cool. Yeah. All right, let's just take a quick second here to recap on what we talked about. We talked about looking at your overall portfolio and where your deltas are. Meaning, are they in August or they September? We talked about it yesterday, how they're mostly your short deltas mostly in August. Your long adelta was mostly in September. So what we tried to do today with the ratio spread is take off some of that short delta in August and replace it with short delta in September. Okay? Yeah. Okay, cool. You all right? Yeah. All right, good for you. And you had a nice winner on a broken-wing butterfly of $90. Yeah. That's a lot. Yeah. On a small $2 wide, broken-wing butterfly. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace.
Video: 019 - Extrinsic Value In Options Pricing 08 25 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back to the next episode. I'm gonna go back to the next episode. I'm gonna go back to the next episode. Nicky we're back. Where do I start? Bat vs Bat? How are you today? Good. It's been a much better day than yesterday. Okay. All right. So that's a half-empty scenario. And I love that. Yes. Yes. I mean, I got a good portion of what I was going to talk about while you're doing it because it's unrealistic expectations. You know, you're you're you're down around uh four thousand dollars in your account on the clothes yesterday. You're up about fifteen hundred bucks and they count. That's not typical swings in a market. Especially you trade one contract at a time. Um with this kind of volatility. It's just not it's just not typical. Well, the other side was to have three days like this and be positive again. Yeah. Like you can't expect tomorrow to make fifteen hundred bucks even if the market goes your direction and make fifteen hundred bucks the following day and be up five hundred bucks. You just don't have that kind of you know delta risk in your trip in your account. Now let's look at your delta and it's not weighted. So let's click on weighted and go to beta waiting and we'll set it to SPY. So what we're doing is we're looking at everything you don't understand what you're looking at. You're looking at twenty five delta's uh but when we click on it and we compare it all to SPY you're long one hundred and twenty eight delta's. Now you filled one order already when we open it up you sold an I W M call spread. You didn't have a position in I W M. We're looking to reduce some delta you reduced about twenty somewhat delta not a ton. Fifteen twenty percent of the time maybe ten percent now with where the market is. Okay so good day. So it's positive. Um Harble days in the past those those were negatives but we got to move forward a little bit right. Okay so you have a month santo trade that you want to talk about open up month santo for a moment. Stocks acting horribly today although it was much higher today um I think they're you know you got up to like 23 24 at one point and then it's kind of been back and forth. It opened to twenty six and change. So it was really like right up to where you wanted to be and stay if you're short the ninety five call and the excuse me the ninety five put in the ninety nine call you want to stock to go higher ninety six. Yes you know on its way to where you want it to be but it's not anymore ninety one so what did you want to do here? Um I was going to roll down the uh calls to um trade page please. Bring it all the way down to ninety five um it cuts cuts our delta by about fifteen which is fifteen of the twenty that you have of the twenty that I have. Okay so so the first thing I love to do when I'm looking to reduce delta in my account is go to the positions that I have and reduce delta there as opposed to adding some places like you added an iwm which I'm perfectly happy with but I also like to reduce to the product of what I have. Okay so you wanted to roll down this uh month santo what's the call that you have? I think it's the I thought I was higher delta than that. What do you mean higher delta? I'm showing that one at like fifty delta's and that uh the current month santo. Oh it might have been um was it beta weighted when I was looking at it? Let's go back to the you're probably correct. Yeah because I saw it at like yeah unbate weighted I'm so sorry it was beta weighted to spy. Yeah I apologize. So yeah. So I cut it by uh me 20 percent. 20 percent. Okay so maybe we have to go a little bit further so let's take a look great catch. That's great. So you want to do a there we go. So you short the 99 call you want to go down to the 95? Yeah to the 95 and then there'd be uh a straddle essentially is where I would be at that point. Okay let's do it. Sounds good to me. I mean there's no wrong you know there's no wrong answer. Let's see what we can do this for. The only thing that I see bad with this trade is you've got 11 cent wide market on the 96 uh excuse me on the 95 call and let's go up to that out of the money call. Uh it's kind of a little bit better at uh 17 cents or something like that. Alright so it looks like an 89 cent credit. 91 cent credit now um let me show you a little bit of a trick. Change that sell to a buy. Okay so you notice how if I wanted to buy this spread it's 92 cents. Go back to the sell. If I want to sell this spread it's 91 cents. That tells me that each option is not the same width between the bid and the ask. Okay so I like it. So you have to be careful like when you have a wide market in any of these apps you have to be careful with your price discovery. Like don't just automatically go in at like 91 cents because it might actually be a 92 bid and you could have got 92 or 93. Okay so since we just saw that and I don't think you're going to get filled at 91 cents or 92 cents I think you're actually probably have to go down about 87 cents or 86 cents. But let's take a look let's go up to 92 cents and hit confirm and send and send. We'll let it work and then we'll change it after the after the show is over. Okay so you're going to roll down that you're going to reduce some delta. So I love that. You had one other that you wanted to talk about. And then on my Twitter trade I just have a naked put right now. So if I sell a naked call on there I'm not using any more buying power. Correct. You are 100% correct. And it would cut my delta by about 20. Yeah 20. 28 so it was like a third when I was looking at it about 20 minutes ago. So I mean you cut it in by a third. Right and you get you have Twitter on its lows for today which doesn't mean anything. It's just been a big and I own it from significantly higher prices too. So yeah I look at Twitter as a takeover candidate. But you want to know something? I don't think you can. And I think the mechanical thing to do like I can't sell calls in there. Because I look at it as a takeover candidate. I've been long it's so long I just want to be sure puts I want the directional delta in there. But let me take a step back. I also have other positions that are significantly shorter than what you have. Yeah. So everything has to be taken by itself and on its own account. So if you want to sell the 28 call is that what you wanted to take a step? Yeah I mean that's what I was thinking along the same lines of what I was doing with Mount Santo. Of course you know extra buying power you're reducing your delta. I get it. You know. We'll deal with the stock. We'll deal with the stock $5 higher. It'll be a high class problem. Okay. Okay. Remember what we talked about probability of in the money on that option is 23%. So what's the probability of the stock touching it in the next 24 days? 46. That's correct. Let's go in and sell one of those calls. Let's go in at 75 cents and we can adjust it later on. And if it touches isn't that almost best case scenario for me at this point? If it touches in 24 days it will be the best case scenario. If it touches tomorrow it'll be good not as good. Okay. If it touches in two weeks it'll be a good scenario. Yeah. If I go into 75 cents fine. You're going to change the world's market right now. There you go. It's your offer. It's your one contract is now changing the market disseminated across the world. Pretty exciting. Yeah. I mean when you think about it it really is. Okay. Can I show you one other thing that we could have done in Twitter but I didn't want to confuse you? Yeah. Okay. So we always talk about how you can roll. Okay. So let me show you how to price that roll. So for argument 6 let's say you want to reduce your delta but you didn't want to have any upside risk. Like I don't want to have any upside risk in Twitter. You don't mind having upside risk and it fits your account. There's no wrong answer. But let me show you something that I might have done in this account. Okay. With this type of trade. All right. Let's look at buying back the September 28 put and selling out if you just closed that you just got filled with 75 cents and closing out the so we're closing out the September and sell the October 28 put. How much do you think you're going to be able to do that for? Well click on it. Just click on it. So it says a mid price of around 37 cents. Okay. How do we know that price is accurate? Now it's 40 cents. We really don't because the market's wide in there. Look at the call side. Just remember one thing. Everything has its own relationship mirrored by the other side. Calls and puts have the same member. Remember I told you like like right now if you looked at that 28 put in October. How much extrinsic value does it have? Let's say it's at $25 stock. We'll say $3.3 and 10 cents. An extrinsic value. That's intrinsic value. So how much extrinsic value does it have? How much premium does it have? Let me give you a quick little way of looking at it. Just look at the call side. About $1.20. Okay. Put minus call equals parity. Here. Change positions to intrinsic value. So the call is worth nothing. It's all premium. The put is worth $3.10 but it's trading at $4.25. Oh, so you're paying $1.10 or $15. In extrinsic value. Because it still has. Because anything could happen. Nobody's going to sell you something at parity. Now let's do it from the margin. Now right now at expiration they will or a penny or two above. That's extrinsic value contraction over the next 52 days. So if I ask you right now the 30 puts, take intrinsic value off and just change it to position again. Okay. We're in at a time. And just go go to a lower put like a 25 put. How much extrinsic value does the 25 put have? Not much. It's $5. Extrinsic value. How much does it have? The difference between the calls and the puts are $5. No. So extrinsic value is premium. Intrinsic value is parity. With the stock at $25. How much is that put worth at expiration? Zero. How much extrinsic value? That's the whole price of it. 237. Correct. How much extrinsic value does the 26 put have? $1.93. Right. $1.90. $2.91. Somewhere around $1.90. Okay. Go to another month. Go to November if they have November apps. Go to December. Okay. Stop. Go a little bit further down. Go to the 28. Extrinsic value does the 28 put have? What do we have? 3, 250. No. No. Stop looking at the stock. Just look at the posing call. The 28 put. How much extrinsic value does it have? Draw an arrow to the 28 call. Right there. It has around $2.35 in extrinsic value. How much extrinsic value does the 30 put have? The 30 put. $3.65. No. Don't get it. Extrinsic value is premium over parity. All you have to do is look at the call. The call tells you what price the extrinsic value is in the put. So $1.75 is that? Exactly. And is that just for... That's for every stock. Especially stocks that don't have a dividend. Stock has a dividend. It could be a little bit different. Okay. Twitter doesn't have a dividend. Alright, so we ran out of time here. But I want to do it one more time with you. Just stay right where you are. The 27 put in December has how much premium? How much extrinsic value? 264. Perfect. Okay, go to Netflix. I'm so sorry. I got you. I'll get rid of that. Okay, go to an in-the-money put. I prefer September, October, I mean. But it doesn't matter. Okay, stay right there. The 122.86 put in December has approximately how much premium extrinsic value? 7.45. Somewhere between 7.45 and 8.30. Let's just say $8. Okay, every put up there you should be able to from here on out tell me how much extrinsic value. And it's the same thing with the call. Go up to the call for a moment. I'm sorry. Tim goes along with you like. Stop right there. The 90 call has how much extrinsic value in it? 90 call. It's got none. It's a negative. It's 22 on the call side. Everything is a mirror image of itself. The 90 call has how much extrinsic value? 7.30. Between 7.30 and 7.70 around $7.50. All right. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. Peace.
Video: 020 - Extrinsic Value In Options Pricing Pt 2 08 26 2015.mp3
Transcript:  We're back. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat? How are you today? It's going okay today. I'm seeing a little bit of green on some of my positions, but it's still not where I want to be. Okay, that's okay. So, listen, is trading easier tough? It's tough. It's definitely tough, but I mean... So what would you have said about a month ago or something like that or six weeks ago when you first started? What would you say about trading? No, I would have said like let's go shopping because I mean it's some good trades. Right. And it seems like easier from the outside, doesn't it? Yeah. Like if you're watching from the outside and you haven't done anything, oh, markets are going to high low. You buy here, you sell here. It's a lot different when you have money on the line. You got to make the decision. Yeah. And this has been like, I mean my first significant loss. This is a bigger loss I think Katie ever had and she was trading for like two years. Let's take a look at your account there and she was my first student that we had live on the show. So you're really overperforming. Depends on how you look at it. I'm just kidding, your son. You're up about 700 bucks in your account for today. You're down about $3,000 overall. I was talking to you a little bit before the show started. I don't really like to do that. But I was saying, you know what? You don't have a lot of you don't have a lot of beta in your account that's going to like help you make back that money unless you get real big directional moves in the direction that you need in the stocks that kind of hurt you. You know, I mean like you don't have enough premium that you can sell to make up $3,000. It's trading small without taking on limit without taking extra large amount of risks in your account to make up that. So you got to think to yourself, okay, it's going to be a longer time horizon. It might take me the rest of the year. It might take me six months. It might take me three months depending on how volatility goes. It might take you five months and you get lucky on a couple of plays and volatility works your direction to. It's not a hopeless cause, but you just witnessed over the last couple of days something that Katie, when we were doing it, never experienced in her life and something that traders for the last five or seven years have never traded and have never experienced in their life, which is basically a two or three standard deviation. I mean a stock like when has moved 30% in the last three weeks. It gives me nightmares. Right. It's not like, you know, it's a biotech stock that lost a patent or something like that. We didn't get approved on something. I mean, it's an established stock. Yeah. But at least you have respect now for the market. Now, yesterday we went through an intrinsic and extrinsic value and I never got to my takeaway on what I wanted to talk about. So I wanted to use the example and the takeaway in win today. So let's go to win and we could talk about that. Now I'll just while you're while you're going there, I'll just and change that from intrinsic to tasty trade on the top. I'm sorry on the top. There you go. Okay. So strangle gone gone bad. You keep rolling down the untested side. Let's go to September. Let's go to state September. Show me however. I'm sorry. Now you could change return on capital to the position. I apologize. It's like the 90 put and 81 call. So you're inverted. Let's take a look at the 90 put for a minute. Yesterday we talked about intrinsic and extrinsic value and I hope that I drove home the point for you. But let's see if I did. How much extrinsic value does the 90 put have 60 cents? Right. Well, how are you getting that number? It's the call side. You're just looking at the call side. Whatever the call side is trading for that's going to they mirror each other. So here. So click on position. Instead of position make it intrinsic value. Well, you know what? I'm sorry, make it extrinsic value. You'll be able to see it on the put a little bit easier. Okay. So the extrinsic value in the put is 61 cents. You notice the 95 or the 90 and a half put there. It shows an extrinsic value of a dollar 26. But the 90 and a half call has how much extrinsic value? No, 57 cents, 58 cents. So you know that something's not wrong there, but that market is so much wider than that 90 and a half put. Now the reason why I wanted to show you this little trade hack about how we find intrinsic and extrinsic value very quickly, change that extrinsic value back to the positions please, is because when you're rolling an option that's deep in the money and you have wide markets, even in something like a $73 stock like when price discovery, especially if you only have one contract, is going to be paramount. It's going to be king. Plus if you can understand how to get that price, then you'll forever be never have to be at the mercy of the market. You'll always know what a good market is. And by good market, I just mean a fair and just one. So let's roll. Remember, all options September, October, November, December are exactly the same. We tried going through that a little bit yesterday. If I'm looking at a put that's trading for $20 and the call is trading for $1 on the same strike, it's going to have $1 of extrinsic value with no dividend in the stock. There's no dividend here. Okay. Let's buy back the 90 put and roll it to September. Now you should be, I should roll it to October. So all we're doing is we're trying to buy ourselves some time and get a little bit of premium. Now take a look at the 90 put for a moment here in October. So you're short to September. We're going to buy that one back. And at the same time, if we wanted to do this, we would sell the October 90 put. The call in September was trading for around 60 cents. Do you remember that? Yes. What's the extrinsic value in the 90 put? Let's say 140. 140. So 60 and 140? 60 minus 140? About 80 cents? Yeah. Let's click on the 80 put, selling it. So the credit received here is 75 cents. Okay. That's a, that's in the ballpark. Yeah. Because we know change that put to call right there. Yes. And it should be around the same price. Now we figured out that it was going to be 80 cents. And when we went to the put side, click it again. It said 75 cents. So if I was looking to put this, if I was looking to do this trade, I would probably route this order at 81, 82, 80, 79 cents. But I wouldn't route it at 77 cents. Okay. Because it's probably worth a little bit more. Does that make it? So it's understating the extrinsic value. Well, here, now, now the market's got tight enough where it's basically perfect. But what will happen is when, when you're trying to roll a trade like this or you're trading a product that has really wide markets and you don't know how to do your own price discovery, your own market awareness, because you know that one mirror is the other. You put something in a mid price. If you put something in at 90 cents right here, you say, well, it's mid price. I should be filled. You know what? I'm going to move it down four or five cents off of mid price. I'm going to go down to 85 cents right here. And you look at the dollar now. Yeah. You're not going to get filled. Because that's that is the true market. But it's not the fair market. Click on the change that put to call again. It's really around 83 cents. So a lot of times I'll get emails from people and say, hey, you know, I'm in at mid price or I've actually moved it, you know, two or three cents off of mid price. And we always talk about how in liquid products and I would consider win a liquid product. How you typically get filled, especially when there's really no delta risk here. Look at the delta on the, you can change position from 90 to delta. The delta on the 90 put here in October is 81. In September, it's probably going to be 90. Go up to September. So there's no delta risk to the counter party. Meaning it's basically just a carry trade. How long do I want to carry this for for the amount of years? Here it's 89. So there's no delta risk. So if the stock were to move a dollar, this spread is not going to move much. It's going to maybe move a penny. It makes sense. There's no risk to the other side. So all we need to know is what's fair value. And the only way to get fair value in deep products like this here, go to Amazon for a moment. I'm just going to Amazon because of $500 stock. And I don't think there are too many people that are naked short options, especially put options because it takes so much buying power. But let's just say that you are. Let's go deep in the money for a minute. Like go up to $5.50 or something like that. Let's see. You can stay right there. $5.40 is fine. Look at how wide that market is on the $5.40 puts. It's almost $3. Yeah. I mean, it's really wide. So if I want it here, buy the September 540 put and sell the October 540 put. Let's just say for argument, say I'm just simulating a trade right now that you had a position in Amazon and you wanted to roll it from September to October. The credit you're receiving here is $5.65. Let's change the put to call. It should be if that pricing, look at how wide the market is. $3.40 to $5.77. Let's change it to call. Well, it's a dollar difference. $6.15. But here, you only have a 25 cent wide market. 30 cent wide market. Now it's 35 cents. Do you understand what I'm saying? So from a change back to puts, to do the put side, you've got an over $2.30 wide market. Much harder to do price discovery. Go to call side. So the call side is trading for $6.15. That means the put side, change it back to puts. Should be trading somewhere around $6.15. So a lot of times what will happen is somebody will put an order in a $5.50 get filled at $5.80 or $6.75 and say, wow, I got a great fill. Did they get a great fill? Probably not. They probably sold it too cheap. Now that's assuming that there's no dividends or anything else like that. If you have dividends and you have to add the dividend into the stock, put side you really don't usually have dividend issue because there's no puts don't have dividend. If you're sure to put, nobody's going to put stock to you so you can collect the dividend. So the put side typically trades true. The call side would not trade true if there was a dividend in September. We can get the dividends when we face that. Okay. Okay. Yeah. All right. So that's why I want to teach you intrinsic and extrinsic value today. I know we didn't make a trade in your account today. Let's go back to your account statement tab for a moment. Your monitor tab, I apologize. All right. So you're up $850 markets rallying a little bit. You're definitely holding long deltas. Let's beta weight your position. SPY. You probably have about 100 deltas. You got 95 now. Okay. So you look at what you've opened up my Santo for a moment. Your my Santo is making a bid for a company. We roll down the calls to 95. It probably costs us about 150 bucks in there. But you know what? You want the stock to be around 95 at expiration. You know, it's nothing you can do. When we didn't we did roll down. Go to win. And the stock still down $1.50 today. So you know, we're zicking when we should zag. We said we're zagging when we should zigg. But we're still doing all the mechanical things. Let the let the large large, large large numbers come into play. All right. So we got to do something with win. So your your options are to roll down your call like we typically do. Do nothing or roll the whole position October. There's no wrong answer. Okay. I actually personally think you should just sit and do nothing. If the stock rallies, then we can do it into strength. That would be my opinion. All right. Let's take a quick let's take a quick break here for just a second or just just go over what we talked about today. So today was kind of a two-parter. I didn't finish what I my my whole thought yesterday. But we had to learn about intrinsic and extrinsic value so that we could then learn a little bit of a trade hack on on how to price deep in the money options when you have to roll them or just price them out. Period. If you wanted to buy deep in the money option or sell a deep in the in the money option, you know if it has a wide market that's three four dollars wide, all you have to figure out is the intrinsic value and then how much the other side is trading for to get the fair and true price of that option or the spread that you wanted, the count spread that you would want to sell. Okay. Yeah. All right. Good job, Addy. And a better job out of your account too. Hey listen, you got you got back 20% of of your losses. How's it make it feel? That's a lot better. Still a long way to go. Yes you do. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace. Tim Nights next.
Video: 021 - Skewed Iron Condors 08 27 2015.mp3
Transcript:  We're back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat. How are you? Good. I'm having, I mean, the last couple days have been better for me, account wise. Still making adjustments. I rolled down stinks, doesn't it? I know. It's really a pain, but... So when you say you make an adjustments, it's because you're accounts not performing the way you want it to, or positions, deltas getting too large. Your portfolio has changed. I mean, that's the dynamic thing about trading, and that's really the dynamic thing about options. You know, if you buy 100 shares of ABC stock, it's always going to be 100 shares. You've defined your risk on entry by buying or selling 100 shares of stock. With options, they change. What could be neutral or negative delta one day, especially when you're getting two 300 point moves in the Dow and 50, 60 point moves in the E-Mini S&P's, which your first two weeks of trading, we were having $5 ranges. Now we're having $50 ranges. A one standard deviation move was something that was a mythical animal that we would talk about. You had a four, five, and six standard deviation moves in a lot of the products that we've traded. So in a short period of time, good and bad, you've been able to witness something that I don't know if it's going to stay with us for a long time, but eventually we'll go away. So you're at an advantage and you're at a disadvantage because we didn't get a lot of the principles down of trading for you yet. So now we've got an account. Let's take a look at your account. That's down around $2,000, $2,100, and change it looks like. You are up about $800 today. You're only up around $600. I have to tell you, when I first started doing this with Katie, if we had a day where her account using about the same amount of buying power moved $50, $50, the whole account, that was a kind of a wild day. I mean, that's how it was for the beginning of our show. Yes. Now what we are, we're in a position which is kind of a good position for those people who are starting to learn how to trade. We're kind of a little bit behind the April. We're not playing from an offensive standpoint. We're kind of playing from a defensive standpoint right now. And by defense, I mean, you're looking at your deltas on your position. Let's beta weight your overall portfolio. So we're just going to click on beta weighting, put an SPY, and you're long about 20 deltas. If you remember the last time we did this, we were alone about 150 deltas and about 100 deltas. Now, 2021 deltas, that's just how fast things are moving. My thought for you, when you take a look at this, you know, your biggest delta, your longest delta is there in SPY, 25 long delt win, which has been a pig. Which has been a pig. And then everything else is pretty much flat, meaning your delta is pretty much flat. So where the market is today is probably if we were closing here at expiration, a really good price feel. You had some oil-related products and stocks that you've been leaning a little bit long on that you got paid on today, which is nice. So if this was expiration, you'd probably have the majority of your money back. Maybe even be positive, but it's not expiration. Yeah, there's still time. There's still time premium left. So we've got to keep, since we have a portfolio after looking at it, beta weighted to SPY, that's basically neutral with a little bit of long delta. I wanted to come on the show when, before we started the show, the Dow was up around 300 points. It's only up 80 now. And the E-mini S and P's are up 10. They were up 40. I wanted to put on a skewed iron condor. Meaning I wanted to sell the call spread a little bit closer than the put spread to give yourself a little bit of negative delta. Now, with the market moving the way it is, I kind of want to, I kind of want to change it up a little bit. So the only ETF that you don't have up there, equity related, you have a position SPY, you have a position in the queues, you have a position in IWM, the only one missing is the Dow, DIA. So I thought we would take a look at DIA. Let's go into the account state, the charts for a moment and just take a look at the diamonds, DIA. And see if it fits our criteria. So you got an IV rank of around 63. Truth be told when I was looking at it earlier, it was around 54. So volatility is expanded. That's a good thing for us. It's back into the middle of the range of where it's been recently. This is what I hate about charts and charting. And I only look at it as kind of like a point for you to take a look at. Now I'm watching the market all day long. I know you're doing support out there watching the market all day long with people too. But I know what do you say the ranges? I think it's a yearly chart or six month chart. What do you say the ranges in the diamonds? For the IVR? No, I'm sorry, the stock price. I mean, based on what I'm looking at, I would think you can't based on anyone else. 75 is where it was traditionally before the last week. Okay, I mean, I would kind of disagree. I mean, the high is 180, the low is 150. Yeah. I mean, that's all you can say, right? I mean, that's what it is, right? So let's throw out the high and let's throw out the low. So let's say the low is 155, like throughout the low extreme. Yeah. And let's throw out the high extreme of 185 and say it's 180. So from 180 to 155 has been the range over the last six months. But it's spent five and a half months wrapped around 175, right? Yeah. I mean, that's what I was referring to. Okay, so you're right. So we can, because volatility is so high right now and because there's so much craziness in the market for lack of a better word, we can go so much wider than we were able to go before by selling strangles. Now they take a lot of buying power. So what I'd like to do is look at a strangle and then see if we can buy our wings to define our risk. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay, let's go into the trade page. We can just stay right here and toss this fine by me and open up. Well, what month should we be in? We should be going to the October. That's correct. We're going closest to 45 days. So do we do? We do use the weeklies with 43 days. No, right. I like to stay in the monthly options, especially with a new trader. I'm looking for around 45 days, closest to 45 days that brings me to October. We don't have to worry about earnings in an ETF. There are none. So perfect storm. Yeah. High implied volatility. Let's go into October. And let's open up a bunch of strikes. You're going to have to open up like 90. Okay, so what do we like to do typically? Like to collect how much credit on a strangle? A third the width of the. No, on a strangle on a strangle. Right. And they could call and they could put one to collect at least a dollar. So if you were looking at the put side, what put would you be looking to sell? If for a dollar or if we're going to do half and half. What we're going to do is what we're going to do a strangle. So it's half and half, right? Yeah. So we'd go at like the 130 or the 131. Sure. Any any of those from like let's just say 134 to 127 are actually fine. Actually, if you look on the right hand side there, that probability of being in the money, that 5%. That's like a full standard deviation is 15%. 5% is almost like a two standard deviation move. So now what we couldn't get just a few weeks ago at 15% probability of being in the money, you can get at a 5% probability of being in the money just because volatility has expanded so much. That's correct. So let's just for argument six, you can see the markets are a little bit wide there. You notice from the 29 puts, the 28 puts, 27, they're all around the same, right? Same price. Look at all the offers on them. They're pennies away. So you have to do a little bit of price discovery. And when you're trading with one contract, it's going to make it a little bit harder. So you have to go higher on your price and then come down low. So let's just say for argument six, we split the difference and we go in it like the 128 put. Okay. So we're going to sell one make that one contract, please, and make sure you're in the right account too. Should be account that ends in 81. Okay. Let's go up to the calls. Okay, stop. What call are you going to sell? You might have to go up a little bit. Okay. Between like 177 and... Yeah, right around 177-ish. You notice the probability of being in the money there? What is that? 9%. It's almost double. That's skew. Meaning you can't get as much for the call as you can for the put. There's more fear to the downside. So those puts are bit higher, even though they're further away from the market. Okay. Makes sense? Okay. Let's... Since I wanted to skew it a little bit to the downside, give ourselves a little bit of downside delta, let's take that call from 176-ish to 173. Does that work for you? Yeah. Now why pick 173? I really should pick 174 because it's wrapped around that 15% probability of being in the money. Can you put a circle around that? It says 1611. So that would keep us outside of a one-standard deviation move? Exactly. Or right around a one-standard deviation move? That's correct. So we're going further on the put, closer on the call, give ourselves a little bit more short delta. Just hold down the control key and click on the 174. That's fine. Keep my stuff really honest. Okay. Now let's go on the call side. Let's go all the way down to define our risk because hit confirm and send one time on that trade. You use about 2200 hours worth of buying power. Not bad. But the way my account is right now. You're using almost 20,000 of a $30,000 account. I want to see if we can tighten that up a little bit. So let's close that. And let's keep in mind that it's $22 or $2200. So let's go up to the calls and see which call can we buy for a nickel or something like that. Okay, stop. It looks like... 184. Yeah, 184.185. Okay. Let's just go 185 because we're going to have to go further on the call side. So we're $11 right now. Okay. So in five cents, we've built a... We're starting to build an iron condor that's $11.00 wide. It's going to use $1100 worth of buying power. Actually, $1,000 worth of buying power because you're collecting almost a dollar or the lower a dollar. Yeah. Instead of $2,200. So we're cutting in half and paying a nickel. But we got to do something on the put side too. So let's go to the put side. So let's see if we can go 11 points lower and see what happens. So let's go to the 118 put. Let's go to the 117 put. Now look at the market on the 117 put. Look at the market on all of those puts. So the 20 put, the 19 put, the 18 put, the 17 put. They're all basically the same price. Yeah. And what we selling the 128 put for? The 128 were selling for $50. Like $0.50. So if we've got to buy the other one for $0.25. We're selling that wide put spread for $0.25. It doesn't make much sense. That's awesome. And the fact that you can realize that is really amazing. So just sell the call spread. Okay. So I did. So then it'll be. So if you're looking for short delta, I want to do both sides. I either have to go closer with my iron condor. Or I have to just sell the call spread. So then that keeps us with risk to the downside then. Nope. That keeps us with risk only to the upside in this position. You're selling a call spread. You're right over the putter just you can hit customizing change it to zero or whatever. Didn't stand. You're only selling a call spread. Okay. Did I lose you? A little bit. Okay. Okay. All right. Well, we'll talk about it. It's good. Yeah. And we'll put on a table talk about it after the after shows over. All right. Let's take a let's just think about what we talked about here today. What I wanted to go over was your whole portfolio. You're long about 20 delta. I wanted to find something that would give you about 20 delta's worth of 20 short delta's. You're long 20 delta's in your portfolio. The object is not to get your portfolio to delta neutral. But you have been riding these delta's up for the last couple of days. The markets accommodated you. Let's look to sell into strength. Let's look to neutralize your position a little bit by selling 20 to 50 delta's. If we sell an option that has a 15% probability of being in the money, it has about a 15 delta that would have gotten you just about neutral in your overall position. Cool. All right. Good job out of you. Who comes up next? Tonight. What do I normally say? Peace.
Video: 022 - Stop Cancel Replacing When Rolling Into Strength 08 31 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back Where do I start bang? Oh, so yeah, that's you that's your side. You can be like the dead fish hand did I yeah I apologize Speaking of dead fish how's your account doing today? It's a 118 bucks operate on the day that's right 120 yeah 127 I see up there you're still down about 1800 bucks When we came on before we came on you like I'm not doing that great Don't look at your your P&L loss. I mean you have to be you know that's there. It's not going away You have to think about one brick at a time every day now to get there even faster than you're getting there You have to be cognizant of your pricing Let's look at your canceled orders for a quick second here because you You rolled go all the way down the bottom All right, so you were gonna roll and open up your apple position So you have an apple September 110 straddle on and the stock Rallyed up to around one 13 and changed the other day. It came back down as what you needed you had some short delt in there You were up a couple of dollars on the trade about Somewhere between 10 25 bucks on the trade for the day and you wanted to roll from September to October Yeah, now let me look at your pricing here the first one you go in at a dollar 15 Yeah, I say okay being a little bit aggressive. You don't know what's gonna happen with the market Next one you go in with the dollar eight so you went from a dollar 15 to a dollar eight So that just tells me that your pricing was really off from the very beginning now Let's go down a little and then you go down to 105 you don't get filled so now let me guess what was having to the stock the stock We're starting a rally yeah, okay, so when the stock was going your direction and you were making some money back That's when you need to be aggressive with your pricing meaning like you got what you wanted don't think about what you might miss Do you know I'm trying you know I'm trying to say because hold on a second. Let's go to 105 keep going One dollar canceled now. Let's go a little bit further one dollar cancel again. Let's go a little bit further. I know stop all right so You walked it from a dollar 15 to a dollar stock probably only moved about 40 cents so You probably had a good chance to get filled at a buck oh five buck six buck four When the stock was moving in a direction like don't be a chaser try to do it into strength now We haven't since you've been on the show had that opportunity to roll into strength. We've always been doing it from a defensive Play and that's the worst place to be like rolling to me Is the reason why rolls a four four letter word? It's like if you're rolling you're typically doing it as a defensive move And that's not a great Feeling and that's not a great thing But when you have them your way be aggressive with your pricing because even if it continues going that way It works for you because you're not switching your position. You still wanted the stock to go down to 110 All right, so now let's look at what we did You tried to roll from September to October you went in a 380 credit So now what you're doing is you're just changing the September 110 straddle to the October 110 straddle I started looking for to roll it into a strangle That's why I did for for the dollar for the dollar credit you were moving the call up to the 115 call Yeah, I got it either one works, but since you couldn't get a dollar for the one you decided to get a little bit more credit for the other Okay, so you tried to roll for 380 keep going a 378 keep going 375 and then you got filled close that up for a minute And I got to tell the true story because we don't lie here on tasty trade open that up You got filled it a $3 and 72 cent credit, but what did you really go in at 370? 370 so I wanted the fill all right, but because now you had to have it. Yeah, yeah And you're moving it by nickels it cost you nothing to cancel and replace Move it by pennies you got filled at 370 to because the markets are tight and liquid and apple if that was a win or something else like that You might have been filled you know 20 25 cents off of what the mid price really should have been Now you asked me why do you get filled at 372? That's called price improvement That just means that the market is so competitive that even though you wanted to sell it at 370 Somebody said hold on here Sparky. I'll pay 372 which means there was probably a 373 bid somewhere That's nice that they helped dummy. That's that's great That is that worked in my favor. Yeah, they helped that that went in my favor this time and then to compound things You're selling five lots in GG when you're supposed to be trading that was a big bad fat finger because I wanted to sell a naked put in GG That was bad being in the wrong account That's true So you sold one put in GG as a new trade open up the GG trade for a minute You're just selling a naked put using $280 worth of buying power you were thinking about doing a covered call And what I want what would I talk to you about was you know what? Covered call lower probability of success than the Then the naked put the naked covered call you can make more money. Let's just call them both 65% probability of success 62% probability of success They both have about the same probability of success Covered call has a little bit lower you can make more money the naked put has a higher probability of success You can make a little bit less. I said let's not be that aggressive in GG It's not something that we trade all the time I don't even we don't have any gold exposure or you do have some mining exposure So it's it's not a correlated trade But it's certainly stuff that you already have in your account. Yeah, unlike TLT which you put in there All right, so so naked put pretty classic trade I think everybody can kind of understand that we always sell the strike that's basically one or two strikes out of the money in a low price stock Like a 13 and a half dollar 13 dollar and six six and stock you're gonna be going one strike out of the money. Okay perfect All good so now I have a question for you close up the the cancelled orders and the filled orders and GG Okay, you have another you have another Basically straddle on in Twitter now now I'm going to Twitter and we'll go to Monsanto in a minute But I want to go to Twitter open it up from it. You're up 30 bucks in here the stocks gone your direction It's gone to 28. That's what you wanted now you wished it had happened on expiration day and you were still in this trade Because this trade would be basically trading at around 30 cents each one of the options would be worth about 15 cents a piece at this time of the day Okay, but it's not it's it's 18 days worth of time left So why not while we're up in this stock and we got the move that we wanted why don't we try to do the same thing that you did in Apple But do it in Twitter why not like if it works in Apple. Why wouldn't you do it in Twitter? Yeah, and I was actually thinking the same thing on Monsanto, but it's got earnings and a dividend in Oh, did I kill you killed it from that kill this for you? Yeah, it's not Monsanto Well, and now I was gonna trick you this is really good. Yeah, well I saw the same thing. I mean Twitter moved in my direction this morning. It's up like a dollar 20 on the day or a dollar when I was looking at it um, and so I mean I was thinking that we would go To a strangle on the Twitter to go to move. I agree. Let's take a look Let's go to the trade page, but you're right Monsanto has earnings the following month So it just it just starts checking the boxes from from me to want to close Monsanto at sometime or stay in it more in September as opposed to going out to October earnings dividend I'd rather avoid them if I could make sense. Okay, um, you can change the return on capital to position And you'll see that you're short the 28 straddle And we're down about a hundred bucks on it. So we're not looking to Become positive. We got to first become even so we're looking to make back a dollar. That's what we're looking to do So let's see see if we can buy the 28 straddle That'll close out the trade that we have on and it'll hold down the control key and let's see what we can sell In October that's going to give us a round of three dollar Well here. Let me let me show you. Let's go to 26 call excuse me 26 put so now we're moving two strikes down And let's go up to the 30 call Okay, so you can do that for a 19 cent debit now we like to do everything for a credit So I can move two strikes on either side and have about a 20 cent debit in the overall trade Here's where your market awareness. Here's where your opinion comes in We've been playing Twitter from the long side if you wanted to continue playing Twitter from the long side You would move up the October 26 put to the 27 put if you want and again, it's only one strike I mean, it's not like a humongous difference Difference but it's that or move down the 30 call to the 29 strike or both Yeah, I was actually looking at the 27 I agree with the 27 30 Good In the worst case scenario I could see myself light if if Twitter went below that 27 point I could see myself taking that Stock as shares. I mean and and just playing I mean some analysts said they liked it, but it's been it's been a pig. It's been it's been terrible for the last Couple months, but yeah, this is a type of this is the type of adjustment Trade from strength. Mm-hmm Apple you were doing it from strength this you were doing it from strength others we've been doing from weakness I like this this makes sense to me. What am I trying to do? I'm trying to extend duration So I'm widening my sweet spot. I'm doing it for a credit. I love for the credit to be a dollar 80 instead of 18 cents But I take what I can and I'm looking to make a dollar a full 100 bucks on this trade Okay, I think you I think you do it. You want to go into an 18 cent credit? Now get a question for you Where do you want to route this order at what price? I mean if we're doing it into strength wouldn't we go a little bit above the mid price? Okay, so why? This is you running right into your Apple bus saw that you had like I can see you doing this at a 19 cent credit Seeing if you get filled the markets are two three cents wide But if you don't get filled at 19 you go put it at 18 you don't get filled at 18 you put it at 17 then you're done Let's put it in at 19 cents Hick confirm and send and send If we don't get filled there then we're going to move it down to 18 cents and within a couple of seconds If you don't get filled there we'll move it down to 17 cents and hopefully we get filled there If we don't get filled at 17 cents well, you'll have to move it down to 16 cents to get filled Okay, make sense. Yeah. All right. Well, you stole my thunder with no roll in my and my santo. So What yeah, are we gonna I mean we're sticking to Monk place because we could go weekly as if we Were I mean like if we wanted to do that But I mean well the whole world is your oyster you can do anything you want you can trade a liquid product If you want to start trading you liquid products you can start trading oil futures that are a thousand dollars a point instead of A hundred dollars a point like a stock is missing a million things you can do or you can stick to the program The six-week expert that you are at this at this point and maybe you need what is it you got two years and one mouth listen twice as much as you speak I got it. Let's take let's take a quick step back for a moment and talk about what we discussed today So we talked about a couple of things but really it's rolling and looking For your pricing on rolling especially when you're rolling into strength meaning when your positions making money For you you want to you want to be aggressive with your pricing like you want to be able to get filled because you're getting filled Not better because there's no substantive being getting filled better But you're getting filled because you want to be filled the stock is going in your direction So you're working with it at that time and at that time not letting it change and not letting you chase it When you start chasing it it makes it it makes it worse So we talked about rolling when we also talked about canceling and replacing Be aggressive with your canceling replacing it doesn't cost you anything to cancel replaces no ticket charge There's no commission. So be aggressive with it You know what you want to go in a penny two or three above the mid price and you're watching the stock Okay, I get it, but if you don't get filled start walking that order down until you do get filled and typically you get filled one or two cents around mid price All right, yeah, all right good job. I bet you I got a little excited I'm excited that's trying to get it on You were off by almost 20% we're gonna take a quick break who goes back now? Tim Knight peace
Video: 023 - Strategies To Use With Limited Buying Power 09 01 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna tell you I'm gonna tell you a quick little story. We don't have a lot of times so hopefully we'll get everything but maybe I can make this day when the dowels down 400, you're down about $500 in your overall account. And it seems like the products where we've used the most buying power. Those are the trades that you need to at least not hurt you the most and those are the ones that have hurt you the most. You can always look at your buying power reduction to figure out where your most risk is. Your most risk is in Apple. You have another one in it looks like Monsanto. Win is your largest loser to date. It's horrible. It's not not fun. Not fun. Not fun. So let me tell you a story. Your father actually got to the floor of CBW in 1980. I started trading in 1983. Yeah, to be 21 years old to start trading. I also had to save $5,000. I didn't have $5,000. So it took me three years to save $5,000. In early in 1984, maybe the end of 1983, it was 1984 actually. Yeah, I started just to have to Christmas because I had to get my Christmas bonus to actually make my $5,000. The Dow was up $50 for the first time ever. It never happened before in history. And on that day, I had an out trade. And an out trade is just something. I remember everything's not electronic like it is today. I'd write something down on a card and then I would hand it to my clerk. She would go and check it with somebody else who I did the trade with. And they would take that card upstairs and they would type it in and go through the system. And eventually at the end of the day, they'd all match up. Long story short, I made a trade with a guy that stood right next to me. We could talk to each other. I thought I did something. He thought he did something else. And it basically busted me out. Meaning it was the only time in my career when I didn't have any money in my account. So that day, I traded with a small debit in my account and made a couple of dollars. I was under my limit of what I could trade with the brokerage firm that I cleared through, the market making firm that I cleared through, Branth Associates. Harry Brant was still alive. And he was running the place then. He actually sold to first stop and spearleads Kellogg, but which ends up becoming Goldman Sachs. He allows me to trade with much less than the minimum that you needed, which by the way, the minimum was $5,000 at the time. And then I moved on with my career. So how did I move on with my career after being after having like you're down, you're down $2,300, $3,000, you're down $500 today. You've had a quick start. You were up around $400, $500, and now you've been down as much as $4,000. The reason I told you that story was you have to have number of occurrences. You've got to keep doing what you know will get you there. Now you may have to do different things, you may have to do things slightly differently. Like you're using $20,000 worth of buying power in your account of a $30,000 account. You can't ramp it up to $30,000 today. Now somebody with a larger account, let's say $1,000 or $250,000 or $1,000,000 might be using $30,000, $50,000 per cent of their account, $60,000, that account like you are, $66 per cent of their account. They might ramp it up, be able to put on the same type of trades that they've always put on. Strangles, straddles, more buying power trades than you can. So I told you this whole story because I wanted you to think about the type of trade that uses the least amount of buying power for a smaller size account that takes advantage of high implied volatility, which is the highest. Just go to a four-slush VX by the way. Volatility has moved 100% in the last week or so. There you go, 95% increase from around $15 to almost $30 in the last 10 days alone. That's a year move. That up there I think is a six-month or a year-to-date chart. That's a year move in volatility. It took a year from volatility to get from $30 to $15,000 to $30,000. So how do we take advantage of that using the least amount of buying power? What would be the type of strategy you would use? Iron condors? Sure. And the same way when I was trading back on the floor, I would have to close out all my positions at the end of the day because I didn't have any margin to keep trades overnight and not take advantage of any type of movement in overnight, which all the market makers were able to do, you're in the same type of situation. You've got to do strategies that don't use a lot of buying power. Iron condors would be the one. What stock would you like to do in iron condor? I was looking at Microsoft. What are the other end of the yields? And then I was looking at DIA. The diamonds, the markets are way too wide in there. Way too wide. I mean they're 10 cents wide for the... Here, since the diamonds are going to move the same way SPY, IWM and the Qs are going to move, I'd rather see you use one of those three then use the diamonds. I know you already have positions in there, but maybe we can go in there too. Let's, since we have the charts up there, let's just go to Microsoft for a quick moment. I know Microsoft's gotten beaten up. It's down about 10% I think over the last 10 days or so. Down 11%, trading 41.95. Okay, stocks down a buck and change. It looks like a dollar 50 or so. A little over 3%. All right, what do you want to do in there? Let's go to Do. High implied volatility rank 89%. The highest it's been for the year. Okay, I love it. I was looking at two of them. I had a $3 wide and a $2 wide. Let's, let's, let's since volatility is high. Let's go wider. I mean, you know, it's $300 worth of buying power. So if $3,000 worth of buying power with a, with a, with a strangler, something like that, you're going 45 days out. That's $5 with less change that to three. Okay, click go. Now most of our research is shown that a $3 wide iron condor is about the sweet spot for buying power reduction. I don't know if you stumbled on this or you knew this, but buying power reduction to risk versus reward. We like to collect around one third with the strikes. What strikes were you looking at? I was at on the put side. I was at a 40 short and a 37 long. So the 40 37 puts bread. Yep. And then on the call side, I was at the 46 49. And it looks like it's right around 99 cents is the mid price. Okay, listen, it's a 50 50 shot. Yeah. So, so here, if we were doing a, a strangle using more buying power, we'd be able to go to the same distance that we normally would go and collect a higher premium. Or we'd be able to go further out and look to collect a dollar, really to collect around a dollar on the trade for about a, you know, 70% probably success on the trade. Here, you're able to go possibly a strike wider than you would have been able to go, you know, two weeks ago, a month ago, you know, two months ago, that's the advantage you have here. So you only, the reason why we talk about this trade being good for a account that has limited amount of buying powers, you only have margin on one side. If you're selling the spread for a dollar for argument six, it's going to take $200 worth of buying power because the stock can't close over 49 at expiration and under 37. The brokerage from recognizes that so your risk is only the $200. The $100 credit plus the width of the strikes being $3 total, $201. All right, let's go in at 99 cents and you can adjust this down by a penny or so. I wouldn't move it much more than that. Maybe two pennies at best if you want to get filled. I want you to have a number of occurrences on because I don't want you to be afraid to put on more trades. Okay. Can I, can I come up with one? Yeah. Can I just come up with one in case you don't get filled in this? Can we talk about Microsoft for one second? Yeah. Go back to that. Just click on undo so we can go back to what he had on. Okay. That's the, perfect. Okay. So that's the strikes you had on. Let's take off that 37 put for a second. Now this is a Jade lizard. We're selling a call spread selling the naked put. You're probably a success goes up by about 10%. Maybe a little bit less. You're collecting a dollar 52 stocks been beaten up around 11% meaning our research has shown when a stock has gone down around 10% in the last 10 days or less that typically you can get a little bit of a bounce up. Now I don't know if you get that in this market. But that would be another consideration. So if you don't get it's going to use about $600 worth of buying power instead of $200 worth of buying power. So because the stock is a cheaper price stock meaning it's only $40 not a hundred four to Alice. You're not using that much buying power. So if you don't get filled in the one your decision whichever one you pick. You know all you're doing is taking off that one side giving yourself downside risk more than 200 bucks downside risk of you know a couple of thousand theoretically but the U600 dollars with the buying power. Okay. Alright. Let's look at I WM you have a short call spread and I WM against basically one by two put spread and SPY and a naked short call and SPY. You're losing about just look here. We don't have to go to you lose it about $200 in SPY and you're making about $60 or so in I WM. Your overall account is leaning a little bit long about 60 delta's that 60 shares of SPY. We were short about 40 shares 40 shares of SPY going into this move of the last couple of days. Alright. Let's go to I WM. Let's go to strategies. Let's do the same thing. Let's go to an iron condor. I'm my buying power is no better than your buying power in your account. 45 days. I'm going to widen the strikes to five. So let's change the width from three to five. You can you can make it to make it make it 60% probability of being in the money because that's about what you were maybe a little bit less. Click on go. Alright. I gave you a little bit of your history on what your delta's were because I wanted you to think about what I'm going to do now. What I want to do is I want to sell a call spread right where it is the one sixteen one twenty one. So that brings us about three and a half dollars away on the call side. Let's move our put side down further. Let's go to like one oh two ninety seven. So what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to get a little bit of you did a completely neutral trade in Microsoft. If you just sell the naked put it would make a little bit more bullish. Here I'm skewing it to the downside a little bit to give myself a little bit room to the downside but also to give me the short delta's that I think your account needs mid price at two twenty four. That's the kind of trade I'd like to make and I'd even high IV rank sixty seven percent I would go into the diamonds to just like you. Yeah, but the diamonds just have you know too high. Yeah, I was looking at a five dollar wide iron condor there as well for around the same credit. Just get better markets in here. Yeah, gives you a little bit of short delta like it shows you at thirteen you had about sixty we're reducing you know about ten percent twenty percent. Okay. Sound good. Yeah. Alright, let's go into two dollars and twenty three cents which is the mid price. We get a little bit of a rally you probably get filled just because our call size a little bit closer. Alright, let's take a quick second here just to think about what we what we discussed we discussed a couple of things. What to do in buying power is an issue you know you don't have when it's tied up in other products number of occurrences like you have to this is October with forty five days to go and high implied volatility. Forty five days to go is the perfect time from our research to put on trades but you know why you limited by what you have and what you left with. The only other thing that I would have liked to have gotten to which we didn't get a chance to was win. We could talk about rolling down win but we can do that tomorrow. Okay. Alright. Yeah. You almost got a twenty dollar loss in win how we can make that only an eight dollar loss if things can work out a little bit with us. You know a lot of the positions that you have on are exactly where they should be meaning if it was expiration in oh I H your short the twenty nine thirty one twenty nine call thirty one call the stock is right there thirty and a half right in between your short strikes you're not making any money in that position. The volatility is just killing the prices who comes up next. Tim night what do I normally say peace good job. You
Video: 024 - Dynamic Iron Condors 09 02 2015.mp3
Transcript:  What do I start? Bat vs. bat. How are you? Good. About 600 bucks. I'm OK. It's been a good day for me. Better. Better day. Yes. Listen, you had to mark it down significantly yesterday twice as much or more than it is today that it's up and your account's doing better today than yesterday. That's nice. I'll tell you what's coming out. That's the difference. OK. Let's, I got a couple things I want to talk about. We did earlier on the show, we did a dynamic iron condor, which is a little bit different than what we've normally done. So I'd like to do one of those with you. I might even want to try to do it in the diamonds if we could. I know you mentioned the diamonds yesterday. I had mentioned diamonds a few days before that. We don't have a diamond position. It's the one we haven't been in yet. And we haven't been in yet. There aren't quite as liquid as PY and IWM, but as markets get a little bit slower, they get a little bit tighter. I think we can do something in their day. So I wanted to do that. I also wanted to look if you could put up as account for me, that'd be great. You just go to toss, it'd be fine. I also wanted to look at your wind trade, stocks down $35 since we put on this trade, you're down $1,000 total on it. I wanted to show you how we can roll down one more time and kind of like, and kind of be like giving up. It's my way of getting out of the trade and taking the loss. Still keeping a trade on, still keeping the risk. I wanted to do that. And then possibly discuss why open up the field orders. In SPY, we roll down our naked call against the one by two put spread that we have on. So I think just for ease of doing things, I think if we do the dynamic iron condor first, I think it's pretty self explanatory, we can get to that, we can even do that in Doh if you want to. And then we can go to the stuff that's a little bit more complicated. Is that cool? Is that cool? Okay, all right, let's do that. Let's go to Doh for a quick second and let's just put in DIA. Just for the sake of time, the diamonds have had the highest IV rank of all of the ETFs, not by a lot, by a little just about four or five percentage points, that also could just be because the markets are a little bit wider in there too. So it's as wide as everything else or as liquid and as strong as everything else, deep and liquid meaning the markets are. IV rank of 59 has been coming down from around 60 to 70, it's down to 59 now. Dynamic iron condor is the short strikes, both at a 20% probability of being in the money and your long strikes that define your risk are at a 10%. Okay. It's as simple as that. However the volatility skew is, if there's more skew in the puts, then your puts bread would be wider or tighter, do you think? If there's more, it'd be wider. You'd have to make it wider to get that credit, that credit, right? No, it just has to do with how, since the expectation of a move is so much greater to the downside, then that 10% probability is going to be further away. Let's do it and let's take a look. Okay. It might be easy if we just go to the table view and let's go to October. And we just stay in the monthly options, we don't trade the weekly options, we'll use delta here, delta probability being in the money is pretty much the same. You can stop right there for a moment. Do you see on the right hand side there on the put side, what put has about a 20 delta? Looking at 149. 148, either one of them, 1918, let's just go to the 148 for right now. Okay. Okay, let's click on selling the 148 and which one has a 10 delta of around? The 141. The 148. The 138, 137. All right there. Let's just go to the 138 and I'm skewing it a little bit just because probably even the money is going to be a little bit higher than the delta because probably even the money factors in the option being worth at least a penny. Okay. And on toss you'll see that these numbers kind of match up pretty close to what I'm talking about. 20% probably being the money, 10%. All right, let's look at the call side. The call side, we're looking at around what strike for that 20 delta? Between that, I mean 71, 72. Let's go to 71, you're perfectly right. Sell the 71. And for the 10%. We're going to go to the 175. Exactly. Let's go to 175. So you're looking at a $4 wide call spread. You see that, 171, 174 versus a 138, 148. It's $10 wide. Put spread. Twice is wide on the downside than it is on the upside. But yet, both of them, both short options, which is your biggest concern, have a 20% probability of being in the money. That's skew. Okay. That's nice. This is trading for, it looks like about $1.79 that's been the mid price pretty much all day. You can notice the market's a little bit wide in there. 171, 187, 171 being the natural bid. 189 or so being the natural. Let's go to $1.80. And let's move it down as much as two to three cents and no more. Okay. After the show is over, just so we can do the rest of the show. We're going at 180 and see what happens. Okay. If I'll tell you the upticks a little bit or the market rally is a little bit, maybe you get filled. All right. Okay. Just outside our one third, the width. Idea. Different. Yes. Because it's not equal. Not equal with on both sides, $3, $3. We collect $1, $1.13. Does it call the dynamic iron condor? Well, something different. Okay. Do you look for like a specific percentage of credit to get on these? Like is it compared to the, to the biggest side or the smallest side of the thing? No, it's really wrapped around Dave's to the expiration, which is right around 45, which is the perfect time. Okay. All right. Yeah. Okay, cool. So we hopefully will have another trade on, we'll put on the diamonds. Okay. Go to toss for a minute because I have it set up there and just go to the account statement tab if you wouldn't mind. And put in a win, please, W-Y-N-N. Pig. Pig, right. We started on 810 when the stock was trading at around 105. 105. It's exactly right. The stock is $72 or just under $71.81. I bought it there. I'd be down a lot more. Yeah. Well, so you got to think about that. Now we had a neutral position. But you know, there was somebody that bought it. There was somebody that sold it. There's somebody that's bought it and sold it for a loss. There's somebody that sold it and bought it for a profit or a scratch or everything's in between there. But what I want to show you is how we can kind of limit the loss that we have. Remember, how is short put was 90? All things being equal with the stock at, you know, 80. We've had a really fight. Remember the stock was 105. Yeah. Okay. How can we get out of this trade, go to the trade page for a moment? How can we get out of this trade but without getting out of it? Like I want to get out at a better price. You're down about $1,000 on this trade. Let's see how we can get out at a better price. Now what I should have showed you a moment ago, all of those roll downs, the mechanical rolling of the untested side, has brought in a credit of around $9.23, something like that. It's called $9.25. If we roll down a little bit further and go what we call inverted, meaning our call is going to be in the money and our put is already in the money. If the stock lands in between there, somebody is going to put stock to us and we're going to sell stock to somebody else at expiration, we would have nothing. If both strikes are in the money, yeah. Do you got me so far? Yeah. Okay. One's going to give me a hundred long dollars. That's where we've been at though. Like we've reverted now when it changed return on capital to positions. You're inverted but you're not, you're not, both strikes are not in the money. It's not right there. You're 78 call, although it is below your 90 put, your 90 put is in the money. You're still out of the money compared to where the stock is right now. Exactly. So if the stock were to expire here, you would come in long 100 shares of stock and you'd have to do something in October, you could sell a call. I mean, there's a million things you can do about it where you can roll it. Today, a million things you can do about it. It's been kind of a, you know, the used to be a stock called was still around, Shield, Sears, SHLD. I can never make money of it. It was just, it had my number. You know, it was like, it was like when I was a kid, Mitchell and Cavaya could beat me up. He always beat me up. Nothing I do. Now Vivian, my next or neighbor, used to go and beat up Mitchell for me, but I couldn't beat up Mitchell. He even just had my number. I have nothing I could do about it. Same thing here. The win has just gotten that number. It's not really the most liquid stock and I don't want to go into it into perpetuity. And I was looking at the puts today even to roll them and it was like, if I wanted to roll down, this roll to the next, to the next expiration was like an 87 cent credit. It would give me years to get, to get to even on that. Or price movement. One day, yeah, or huge price movement. One day this stock is going to be up $10. We probably won't have a position. I want to add, but one day this actually would be up $10. So what I was suggesting that we do is we roll down to the 70, 78 call spread. So we sell the 70 call and we buy the 78 call. So we're selling out a new call, buying our 78 call back, not using any more buying power. It looks like it's only around $3.29 earlier today. It was around $3.40 when the stock was a little bit higher. Let's go in at $3.35. And maybe if the market continues to rally and this rally is a little bit, you can always move it down a little bit more. We'd have a total credit of around $12.50. And let's call it. And you would have a $20 inverted spread. 70 to 90 is $20. You collected $12.50. So it's an 800 loss. $750. You're down a thousand. You pick up, you don't pick up $250. You get $250 back. As opposed to just closing the position today. I mean, could the stock go below 70? Absolutely. Do you still have risk for the next two weeks? Absolutely. But for that risk, you've got a possible profit, possibly getting back $250. And it wouldn't even matter how far up the stock goes. That has to stay in between 70 and 90. Yeah, but if it's 71 or 89, it's not not a loss. That's going to be $800. That's correct. Or the $750. That's correct. It's tough. Pilled the swallow. Tough Pilled the swallow. You were down around $1400. You're down a thousand. You give up the directional risk. You know, if the stock were rally back to 78, you know, you could almost be breaking even on this trade. If I didn't make this move. That's correct. Let's beta weight your overall position. And we ran out of time and I didn't even get to what I really wanted to get to. Let's beta weight. Let's go to his monitor tip. You could send it. Do you want to send that? Go into 340. And so to give you some time to think about it. Yeah. Okay. Hey, confirm and send it. It's entirely up to you. I want it to be your trade. Cool. Let's go to the account statement tip for a moment. Beta weight is overall position to SPY. And we did roll down a little bit in SPY. So that took off the 28 long deltas that you have in SPY. They were around 45. Rolling down into strength. We can go over the one by two what it looks like. You have 38 long deltas. We really should have short delta in this portfolio because you have positive theta. So we still got things to do. If you roll down your win, you'll pick up another 20 short deltas. That'll help you a little bit. Okay. One last thing and it was everything that I wanted to talk about today. Let's go to his account statement tab. You did a trade in October, just an October trade just a few days ago that I earned conduits. You see that 827 there? A $2.25 St. Credit. It's trading for around $1.60. We've done a market measure and a research about should I stay or should I go is what it's called. And it explains on a strangle how much percentage you should make and whether you should close a trade or keep the trade because everybody always asks I know how to get into a trade. How do I get out of a trade? This is not a strangle. It's an iron condor but it was very, very wide. $10 wide, very, very far out of the money. It's trading for around $1.60. You're up a little over 30%. After five days. After five days, five, six days. That's something that you would consider getting out of it. It's a bell. It was a strangle. I would tell you to get out of it. This is a synthetic strangle. I think you might consider taking a profit. I see diminishing return on capital at this point. I mean, when you hit 30% in five days. You got a profit. Maybe it's time to take it. All right, let's just go back and see what we discussed. Because we discussed a lot today. I really wanted to talk more about what I just touched on a moment ago and that's when to close a strangle. And we did an excellent market measure. And I hope they put up the slide if they could. There it is right there. Should I stay or should I go from July 30th, 2014, which explains, you should watch it in its entirety. You should watch it too. It's a market measure just telling you when you should get out of strangles, what percentage of profits compared to the days that it's held. You held. You'll notice six days. You've got around a 25%, 28%. I can't remember exactly what your profit is. By this measure, you probably should take off that trade. We also talked about our SPY trade and we looked at the dynamic iron condor. A lot of stuff we did today. I hope you go back and watch that last market measure that we did. And I enjoyed your company today. That was great. Who comes up next? Tim Knight, peace.
Video: 025 - Should I Stay Or Should I Go Bat Edition 09 11 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Music Make it my back! Where do I start? That versus that? Got so much stuff to do today. Cool, let's get started. Yeah, I'm cool. Let's do it. Alright, what do you want to start with first? Let me tell you what I have. I have SPY which I think is your biggest problem is you actually make money at today. I pay 85 bucks. Yeah, almost even on a trade that you were down probably... A couple hundred, two, three hundred bucks. Oh, much more than that at one point. Oh my god, you were probably down close to about a thousand dollars on the trade at one point. You got to remember, SPY which is trading 196 right now traded down to... give me a moment here... 182 And your break even on the one by two was 197. Yes, yes, yes. And then you sold some calls against it and didn't go to a pair. You were down well over a thousand dollars or more and you basically even on it. So we have that to take care of CNX, Monsanto, IWM. Where do you want to start? Let's go with the SPY one. I mean that's... Okay. Do you want to do the other one? You say where do you want to start and then I pick one and you're like, oh god. So which one you want to start with? That's what happens when you are the son and I am the father. Of course. You could not have picked the right answer. Of course. Because I have to be disappointed in you in some way so that I can make you better. Every knock is a boost. Don't you understand this yet? Yes. How much I love you is because I knock you down. It's because I love you. Of course. Make you better. Now you're a hundred percent correct. There is no wrong answer. So let's go to SPY. Let's do it in Do and let's take a look at it. And then maybe the rest will do all in toss so we could take a look at that. All right. So here's the option chain on SPY that you put on. The top trade right there, that one by two is the original put ratio spread you put on that. Just talked about that had a break even of four dollars lower than 201 which is a one ninety seven plus the credit you received I think was around a dollar and change dollar fifty. So your breaking was really really down to like one ninety five and a half. Okay. And you've got SPY trading at like one ninety six and change. The only reason why you're even on this whole trade that original assumption was completely wrong. We wanted SPY to go down slowly. It went down actually quickly. We only wanted to go down to around you know two oh one. So we could trade on SPY was over two oh five or right around two oh five. We wanted to me and down to two oh one. It went straight down to one eighty two. Time has gone on our side. We actually made a couple of easy adjustments on this by easy adjustments. I meant we didn't use any more buying power and we sold those calls. We originally sold to two oh two calls. We've rolled those down to the one eighty five calls. And now you're sitting with the one we rolled that to the one I had. Well so one ninety eight and a half calls. Thank you. Thank you very much for correcting me. Two oh two's down to one ninety eight. Okay. And we originally sold the two oh two call to begin with. That's the trade right on top of that. All of those credits combined are around four dollars and one cent. That's that unrealized gain on the right hand side that you would that you would kind of well or three ninety six. Current value. Okay. Unrealize for a one. You basically take this off for a scratch right now. So that's the one that's down to. Yeah. So I think after having almost a thousand dollar loser on this trade. This is your long delta in your account which we've been defending in a line of buying power. Eight thousand dollar in buying power on your whole SPY position. But this one is four is using four thousand. Yeah. Because we have that October strangle on. So I'm just actually working out for you. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm definitely looking to close this. So let's close this trade free up somebody. How do we close this trade? Let's try from the portfolio page. Click all three of the legs. If we get some viewable positions. You can do all three of the legs correct? Yes. Good. So you want to buy one you want to sell out the two or five put. Then we're going to buy back the two two or one puts. That's right. Two contracts with two or one puts. It's a wonderful buyback that call at the one ninety eight and a half. And it looks like you can do that whole trade for three ninety two. You sold it for four oh one. Yeah. When I was looking at this like 20 minutes ago it was about four oh five or four ten as a small loser. Markets rallied a little bit. Yeah. That's why this is a bullish position. All right. Let's go in. You can see the markets a little wide there. Let's go in at three ninety and work our way up. The higher we pay the worse we are. So let's go in at three ninety. You confirm and send and send and we'll be pretty aggressive with this so you can be aggressive with it on the on the side there while I talk for a moment and if do you have the toss system up there if you don't if you don't we can stay right where we are. Okay. Did we get filled? No. So let's cancel and replace it and we'll go up two pennies just for the sake of time that we have here. So we just canceling the water. It's like a really nice exercise on. You could have canceled and replaced could you not have. Okay. Okay. I got to give a big shout out while he's doing this to our controller back there who makes this show you can go to stay at three ninety three it doesn't matter. Our controller here who was doing all this for us the grace there we go. All right. So you got fill of three ninety three. Maybe we got fill of three ninety two. We took a losing trade that was almost a thousand dollars. A big loser into a scratch trade. That's awesome. It is awesome. Yeah. Market accommodated no panic being mechanical doing other trades against that too. I think that's really the difference between becoming a successful trader and again your size and everything was done on entry. All right. Cool. So we got we got out of SPY. Perfect. Can we remember I told you you had bullish you know bullish assumption in SPY. That's why that trade you were looking at a little while ago it was fifteen or twenty cents higher. It had a big beta. I mean it was moving very quickly with the market. Okay. What did we do against that do you remember with the strangle? We was a little bit of a strangle but we sold IWM. IWM. Yes. So let's go into IWM. You can do it right from here I guess if you like. You can also go to the option chain if you want to show pat your little show positions at IWM right. Let's go to IWM. Okay so in IWM you sold two contracts of the one fifteen two one fifteen one twenty call spread. Remember we sold it for a dollar sixty five and then about a week week and a half later we sold it for a dollar seventy five. So you sold those spreads combined one seventy one seventy two times. They were trading around two ten a moment ago. Now you made money in your SPY position but against that in your overall portfolio this was the difference. So you gave up some money here to keep that position that had a bigger beta. So you lost you know thirty dollars here on this trade fifty dollars here on this trade you made a couple of hundred dollars back on the other trade. Since we took off those long delta's and SPY we've got to put on some long delta in IWM. Now without using any more buying power since we're short those two calls couldn't we sell two put spreads and make an iron condor. I'm not using any more buying power. That's what I think you should do in IWM. Okay so in IWM I would take a look at the one eleven. I'm going to go to a call a vertical spread selling a put vertical spread selling a put spread is a bullish or bearish position. Bullish. Bullish because you have no risk to the downside. Now it's going to compliment or offset your short delta in IWM. You have eighty three short delta's in IWM against what you had was about fifty long delta's in SPY. Okay so let's look to sell the one eleven one oh six make a five dollars wide since we're not using more buying power your call spread was five dollars wide. It's trading right around one oh one it looks like let's go in and one oh one and see what happens two times you got it you got it already. Set up there is two perfect and we give don't get filled. We'll move it in a second down to a dollar or ninety eight cents or something like that ninety nine cents. Okay all right so we close our SWI position SPY position that had bullish delta turned a loser into a positive trader or scratch. Neutralized our portfolio since we just got rid of our long delta's by selling some put spreads. I much rather have you know a higher probability selling out the money put spread than have that one by two which was very sensitive to a to a move in SPY. The next thing that we have to look at again I'm just going through all of your September positions is CNX. Yeah this one you got to take full responsibility for this one was me. Everything else you've done wrong in this account has been me. Oh one hundred percent. Yes all your all your trades. Of course this one I'll take credit for this one you're going to take credit for. Yeah. Good job out of you. All right so you're down about sixty dollars overall on this trade. You're inverted you're short and in the money put right now the fifteen put and you're short the thirteen call. Thirteen calls out of the money because the stock is twelve dollars and forty one cents is down about eighty cents today. Let's keep our bullish stance in CNX by closing the September thirteen call and rolling the September fifteen put from September to October. Hopefully down can you can we roll it down you think you will be able to in a small stock like this let's see. So let's go to portfolio and create rolling order and just roll the put for me and we can leave the call for a moment. It looks like it's trading for about a twenty five cent credit. If you go down to the fourteen strike which I don't think you should do but let's take a look. You're getting a fifty seven cent debit can't do that so let's go back up to the fifteen put. And markets a little widen there you see how it's a ten. You see what's the what's the bid ask in there twenty cents twenty cents yes you yeah so that's that's a lot that means it does not good price discovery so for price discovery I'm going to let you know that the fifteen call is trading for around twenty five cents the markets twenty three twenty nine. So that mid price of twenty five cents is that good or bad bad. I mean it's good for if I could get it but it's actually spot on you might get filled right there you see you're doing it for twenty five or twenty six or twenty four cent credit because the call is worth twenty four twenty five or twenty six cents if that call was trading for fifty cents and you were going to do this roll for twenty five cents then I would say you're not doing the roll of the price you should be able to fifty cents the roll should trade for whatever the opposite side is trading for. Does that make sense it's a little bit hard to see on do because you don't have the calls up there if we went to the table view leave leave his trade on the table view you might be able to see it from there yes see the fifteen call left hand side down the bottom the bid is twenty one twenty six. Then that roll on the other side should trade for somewhere between twenty one cents and twenty six cents twenty six twenty nine twenty six twenty nine I'm looking at the delta was twenty one apologize makes sense yeah all right so let's change that from twenty three cents up to twenty six cents well let's try to get it really good and go well what's the let's see what September fifteen calls are trading for September fifteen calls are no bit at seven cents so they worked about three cents so you got to go back down to you can get filled around twenty two cents let's go into twenty four cents and see what happens we can always change it. We've got a couple minutes here perfect. Okay you did your I WM you did your SPY you're looking to roll your CNX what I want you to do in CNX after you get filled on this is I want you to take those thirteen calls which are trading for around a quarter by those back and sell the fifteen call in October I have a straddle there you'll have a straddle on but you're selling in the money it's a it's a it's a delta straddle meaning it's not going to be neutral. Usually when you sell a straddle it's right at the money the put in the call have a fifty delta this is going to be much you're going to be have long dealt here okay and again we're running a little bit late the last thing I want you to do this is from a viewer who called in go into Yahoo and I think he's a hundred percent correct actually didn't call in he wrote me he said you guys were so great in that Yahoo trade you know you bought the call spread we bought the thirty thirty two call spread we sold the thirty put why wouldn't you sell a thirty four call. Like the stock is trading at thirty one I know you're bullish okay but it doesn't cost you anymore buying power the calls trading for around fifty five cents why not sell it it's got a twenty percent probability of being in the money why not sell it and he's one hundred percent correct like I know we want to have a directional delta on it and you still will because you're long a two dollar wide call spread short a big put and short a small call. So we should sell that call for somewhere looks like it's around fifty eight cents fifty seven cents let's what's the market fifty seven fifty nine let's go in fifty eight cents and see what happens. Make sense and of course there's any more buying power either okay all right yeah all right let's take a let's just take a second here to just go over what we talked about really what we talked about today was should I stay or should I go and really we talked about staying or leaving an SPY we decided to leave we talked about our overall portfolio delta since we lost our long delta and SPY we accumulated some long delta in I WM this is mechanically rolling doesn't necessarily have to be with the same product but you're keeping we worked all about our buying power let's take a look at what your buying power is right now your buying power went down to seventeen thousand from twenty two thousand a little over half a little over half but before you're almost two thirds ten percent of all right good job out of here we did a lot hey listen you'll tweet out all these trades. I'm coming soon I'll be on the dough follow page beautiful you should be good good good you'll be able to track those good perfect very nice all right who comes up next tonight what do I normally say peace peace
Video: 026 - Broken Wing Butterfly Synthetically Short In Neutral Trades 09 14 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. You shaved? No. It was because I had a, on my way to my first fantasy football win of the year. So, you're celebrating with the team? Yeah. I'm sure to show you how happy everything's good in my world right now. I guess the account doesn't mean anything anymore because you're down in your account. Let's take a look at that. What a difference. One Sunday a football will do for you. You're down about 126 bucks. It looks like in your overall account, $850 for the year so far. It's mostly that Monsanto position that was last week was kind of right where I wanted it. And we've got a big move this morning and today and so I've been bleeding a little bit in that one. Okay, so let's talk about that because if you go through your position, you don't have to do it. I'll just say for a sake of time. You have two positions left to September. You've got four or five days left to expiration. It's obviously this Friday. On Friday Thursday, Wednesday of last week, we had talked a lot about Monsanto. Maybe taking it off. You wanted to let it ride, take the shot with it. There's no wrong answer. It's a stock at Rally $2. You'd be up $300. Stock went down $2. You're down $150 on the trade. Things happen. But now you're at parity. You notice your delta risk there on Monsanto is 87 delta. You basically long 100 shares of stock in Monsanto. So any type of strategic play that you had on has now gone away. Let's take a look for a moment what you did on this trade. Because we've looked at other trades where you've rolled down and tried to enhance the position that worked for you. And some that didn't work for you or if you had done nothing, it would have been better for you. Here's a good example. Just regard the last two trades, the one from July 28th on the bottom and then the buy on 84. That's just a scalp that you made and you had some profits in Monsanto. You decided to go back into it. Look at that strangle from 814. That's your first trade. You know that strangle that you put on the 110 call, which is now worthless. And the 95 put that would be what is that? $10 in the money now? It's $5 in the money. You'd be down about $400 on this trade. Instead you're down about $150. And that's all because of the mechanical rolls rolling down the untested side, never adding to the position. I look at it as not putting any more risk on to the position, but reducing how much delta is directional risk. Now you have 100% directional risk. So what do you want to do with the trade today? Like on Friday you were like, let it go. I want to see it play out. What do you want to do with it today? I mean at this point, would we even be able to roll the call down and go inverted? I mean is this too close to expiration to do that? Let's take a look. One thing I will tell you we can't do and we probably would have done that on Wednesday Thursday or Friday was move the trade to October because it was earnings. Yeah, the earnings coming out. I don't worry so much about earnings when I'm looking to roll a trade. But when I'm new to trading like you are only a month into it. This is the last place, Monsanto, that I want to have an earnings binary event in. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. So let's look. You said is it too late to roll or can we roll? Well you tell me. Right now you're going 100 shares of stock. If this stock rallies back two points tomorrow, you'll make back $200. If we were to roll down, where would you want to roll down to? I mean you'd have to go to the 90 strike, right? Okay, so 90 would make basically call it the at the money option. So you would look to sell the 90, 95 call spread, right? Yes. Is that what you're thinking about doing? Because look at the return on capital. Change return on capital to position. There you go, perfect. So you're sure one of the 95 calls you'd want to roll it down to the 90 call. Okay, you certainly could. Before you do that or anything like that, how much premium do you think you're picking up? A dollar and change. That's correct. How do you figure that out? Well I mean the call right now is like between 10 and 15 cents. And you know to roll down is between 150 and 160 let's say. It's a dollar 40, just say or a dollar 35, 40 something like that. Okay, if you just look at the put to the right, you'll see that you're picking up about $120 in extrinsic value. Just a quick way of looking at it. Okay, so all right, so you could do that. So let's say for argument six, let's sell the 90, 95 call spread. So just clicking on the 90 call and we'll buy the 95. So it's just training for around a dollar 45, maybe a dollar 40 by the time you get filled. Okay, you had collected $3 and 14 cents on all of your rolls, your roll downs. Yeah. Now you'd be inverted, you'd be short the 90 call that's in the money, you'd be short the 95 put that's in the money. That's a how wide of a spread. Five bucks. Five bucks. And if you collected 3, 14 and let's just say you collected dollar 40 on this. Yeah. You'd be collecting how much? So 4, 44. 4, 44. So you'd be locking in. No, $66 loss if it stays in between. If it stays in between there. Okay, if you wanted to give yourself a little bit of directional bias to it, like maybe you want to stay a little bit long, Monsanto, let's change that 90 call to the 91. Okay, let's just round up for a second, call it a dollar. Okay, just for, we can make it 90 cents if you want to really doesn't matter me. Let's make it 90 cents. You had collected 3, 14. You collected another 90 cents. That's $4 just let's just round. It's $4. You'd have on the 91.95, which would be worth $4. If the stock rallies, I don't know if it's going to rally. But if the stock rallies over 91 and stays in between 91 and 95, over the next four days. Four days. You break the scratch. Yeah. Okay. Those are your choices. Your last choice is to go completely inverted and go to the 89. Let's make it the 89.91. Okay, so let's just call it $2.30. You collected $3.14 before and you're going to sell it for another $2.30. Roughly the same loss that I would be at the 90. That's correct. But you give yourself a little bit more room down to 89. If I were to go to 89, I'd be saying, okay, I'm throwing in the towel here. And I'm just looking to get out for a better price than it's trading at today. If I go to the 91, I'm saying to myself, okay, I'm going to keep a little bit of a delta bias on here. And I'm going to risk about $70 to do that. Rolling down to the 90 call doesn't seem like it does me any good one. I'd rather have a little bit of the directional risk or a little less of the directional risk. The 90 strike. It's kind of just. It doesn't give you really. It's not having any conviction. Okay. So what do you do? Or you do nothing? Your decision. You're the one that got yourself an extra. Yeah, yeah, this is on a mind. I mean, I think going to the 91 gives me a chance to break even. So let's try that. I mean, even if it drops further tomorrow, I could continue to go and throw it down. But it would probably cost you more than what I would get it for now. You wouldn't be able to collect as much crap. Yeah, it's correct. All right, let's do it. Roll, you feel good. Yeah. Because you want a little bit on Sunday. So you're thinking about maybe I'll scrap. Oh, okay. I'll scratch it. So if I had to, let's go up to 90 cents and just route the order. Just see how it in. Okay. If this was my decision, I think I would have made the same one. And let me explain to you why. Go to a chart of Monsanto. And again, this is all that we ever look at. I don't have any other lines on my charts or anything else that I'm looking at. You've got a stock that's down 8% over the last 10 days. You've got a high implied volatility rank, which means those calls or that roll down that you're selling would probably be trading for 30 or 40 cents instead of 50, you know, instead of 90 cents, like 40 to 50 cents higher because you have a high implied volatility. And giving myself a little bit of room to be right. You got expiration week this week in a triple witch expiration, which we've never discussed before, right? No. We'll go over that tomorrow. We don't have enough time to do it today. But it's typically from our research, a little bit of a bullish bias to the close. That doesn't mean that Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday has to be bullish. That just means on Friday of expiration, it seems to be a little bit more bullish on that week. Net net. Okay. So I'm going with a little bit of my research. I'm going a little bit with my market awareness. I'm taking a small delta stance on the overall position. I'm trying to get out at less of a price, less of a loss than we have today. You know, you're basically trying to make, you know, lemonade at a lemons. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Okay. That's the best that we can do. I was going to look at a Tesla trade. We only have about two minutes. Do you want to look at it? Yeah. You can stay right here and just, okay, that's fine. I'll just put a chart of Tesla or you can just go to the trade page of Tesla if you want to. Chart will be good. No, we can go to just to give you a graphical. All right. So we've got earnings in November. So we don't have a problem with it right now. You got the stock up around 6% over the last 10 days. You got an IV rank of 46. It's neither here nor there are IV rank wise. It's not really high. It's not really low. It looks like, actually, a field of months, Sano at 90 cents. Okay. That's good. It looks like 25 is the lower end of the IV rank, 100 is the higher end. 50 is kind of right there at mid range. Maybe a little bit below on the lower end. All right. On a high price stock like this, broken wing butterflies in a medium to high IV rank seems to fit. Let's go and take a look at a Tesla broken wing butterfly. We'll look at it real quick and then you can decide whether you want to do October or not September. $5 wide strikes. So you have to make a decision whether you want a $10 wide butterfly or $5 wide butterfly. For the sake of time, I'm going to make that decision for you. Okay. I want to have a chance to make some money. If I'm going to have duration, I have to have duration work for me. So I'm going to go over to a wider $10 wide butterfly. Let's look at buying the $255. Well, you can right click on a $265 call if you like. Right there, that's a $265. Right click on the $265. Go to buy, go over to butterfly, and left click on butterfly. Now, change that $265 to $255. And change that $278 to $285. It's $15 on there. Uh... $20. $10 wide? From the shorts to the long. Okay, so you tell me what's my risk on this trade? Um... On... It's $20, 2020. You got your work cut out for you. So that's your homework for tonight. Without hitting Confirm and Send, because if you hit Confirm and Send, it's going to tell you, uh... I want you to be honest. Be honest. Figure out what your risk is on this trade. And then tell me how you figured that risk out. I don't want to just know the number tomorrow. Okay. You got to do your homework. All right. You sure? Yeah. Okay, and if you can figure it out before the end of the day, I'll have to put the trade on. All right. Let's take a quick second here and go over what we talked about today. You should know the answer to that. Yeah. I'm still learning. I got it. I got you. Listen, it took me... It took me a day to learn this stuff. Oh yeah, I was your age. Uh-huh. What we talked about here today, we talked about, um... um... Monsanto and expiration, and what we can do with that trade, whether we're going to... The choices, at least, that we had in there. We had three choices. Uh... Stay, do nothing. Roll, and what strikes to roll down to it. I think we did a good job discussing that we decided to go with the 91 strike, which is what you got filled on. And I think it was not the same decision I would have made. If it stays in between, I'll have like the extra five cents or something. Yeah, you'll actually turn a loser into a... Tiny, tiny. Tiny, tiny. I'll take that. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Knight next. What do I say? Good idea. Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 027 - Closing Mechanics Consistency 09 16 2015.mp3
Transcript:  What do I start? Bat vs. Bat! How are you son? I'm about to even on the day. I got out of my CNX. Let's talk about that. Let's go to the monitor tab. So your account was up about, is that the right account? It had a lot of trades on today. Let's go down a little bit further, but I can see it. So you're unchanged for the day, down $5 bucks, down $750 bucks for the year. We're trying to whittle that back over the year for you the last six or seven weeks. We wore up about $75, $80 bucks. We've been down around $40 or $50 throughout the day. All right. You got out of your CNX trade. Can you scroll back up for a minute and just open up CNX? You'll see that there's no trade there. Open up the filled order. All right. So you bought back your straddle. We had rolled this from last month. It was a loser of about $200 or so. Yeah. We originally put it on. It was a strangle. And then as when we had that little mini crash, we went inverted and then we were able to roll out to October to make it a straddle. If we have time, we'll go to the account statement tab and go over it. I think we've gone over it and past shows. Yeah. I put the whole thing on my Twitter as well. Perfect. Close up CNX for a moment on the bottom. Why do you think as a coach, mentor, father, confident, coworker, friend? Yeah. We pretty much cover all those bases. Very innovative. Everything. What don't you think I like about what I see there? I don't know. So open up the filled orders for just a quick second. Those 15 puts with the stock trading under $15 correct. What kind of market are they going to have? A wide market or a tight market? Probably a wide market. Wide market. So what I notice here, I don't care about the fill. The fill is probably true and good. Maybe it could have been a penny or two better. Maybe it could have been a penny or two worse. That's neither here nor there. It was one contract. Not a lot of money. I get all that. But you're going to be trading 10 lots some day and 50 lots and hopefully 100 lots some day. And it's going to be a significant amount of money. And those pennies, those dollars are going to add up when it's $100 every time. You know, that's your phone bill. You don't have any cancel replace orders here. That means you didn't do price discovery. That means you went in at the mid price and you got filled. Now I'm assuming. I don't know if the order sat there. Now if the order sat there for 10, 15, 20 minutes, that's a different story. But I look at the time and it says 840. No, like I filled right away. I mean, I went in there. So think I filled right away. That means you were, that just means the market was wide and you didn't do any price discovery. The computer probably picked it up to be basically a fair value. Maybe a penny or two. That's all you can get. Get kind of not ripped off but not price improved. If you would have, if I would have seen like two or three cancel replace orders, then I would have known that you just did your due diligence. You might have gotten the same exact fill. Does that make sense? I'm just trying to get the mechanics down because I've watched you. You're a little bit of a shooter. Yeah. Sometimes. I mean, I'm thinking. I don't know what you get it from because your mother's about as a conservative as can be. And I'm as bright as can be. So take combination. Should not make a shooter. But you seem to be a little bit of a shooter. So what I want to tell you is I just want to pull back the reins a little bit. When you have, when you're doing in the money options, cancel replace. It doesn't cost you anything in fees. It's not going to cost you anything in time. Makes sense? Other than that, perfect trade. You took a loser, big loser, significant loser into a scratch, small winner, paid for commissions, whatever the case would be. Perfect. All right. Two trades that you have on left in September. First one's Monsanto. Do you know that Monsanto's the one that's bothering me the most today? Do you wonder why? Because the market's bullish. You mean the S&P's are up $13? Dow is up 100. Monsanto, you're not getting paid. Yeah. I mean, you know, a rising tide, lift sold ships, all that stuff. You took the delta risk of staying a little bit long. You did the mechanical thing, rolled down the 91 calls, blah, blah, blah. Instead of being down $40 and down $120 for the year, you should be up $40 or $50 and down $50 or $60 for the year. So that's the one that really annoys me the most. What are you going to do with the trade? $3 expected move over the next two days. I mean, we can't roll it out. So you have earnings next week. Who cares about that? About earning. I mean, I don't want to be a Monsanto for earnings next. It's not that tiny liquid. What do you do? I mean, you have two decisions. Either roll down to the 90. That's like a new sister. Yeah, I mean, it looked at it today. It was like a 40 cents or 46 cents. I don't know. It doesn't really do anything. I would think that you sit. I mean, to sit or close. Now a shooter would probably sit. I don't want to see. I probably close. I'm just telling you the way it is. Like I take that $120 loss that was like a $300 loss and say, OK, well, earnings are coming up. It's kind of my hands kind of played for me. You want to take the 50, 50 shot or the 53, 47% shot your way because typically markets go up 53% of the time. Although this one's not going up on the market. It's going up. It's entirely up to you. But make a decision. Don't just forget about it. Close up Monsanto. You can decide to do whatever you want to do with it. Next one's Netflix. All right. Netflix, we have an Iron Condor on a very wide Iron Condor. This is a rolled over trade from last month. You add down about $230 on your original trade. You're basically made back a couple of dollars on a wild move in Netflix. Yeah. I think it was yesterday. This was probably about $200 or $300 loser. More. More of a loser. I mean, it's amazing. After we get out of Netflix, this will be my last. Well, yes, it was only $40. It would have to be a less Netflix trade. Netflix and when I'm not touching the dance, sir. Those are the ones that have my numbers. Let's see. Shields. Sears. Robux. You still have my number. So I get it. Everybody has their thing. It's OK. So what do you do here? So highlight everything there. I think it's trading for around $9.15 when $9.20. It's trading $8.97. So it's trading at $9. Two days to go. It's going to go to $10 if the stock isn't above 106. 106.43. It's 104. Yeah, I mean, so this is only going to be a $5. Because it's up $5 a day. I mean, this is only going to be a $5. I would look to take advantage of this move and close out now. OK, so I have a question to ask you. $40 is what you made on this trade, on this humongous move. Monsanto, you made back $40 or $50. You were down about $160 or so. Yes, two days ago before we rolled. Why is one? Why are you wanting to stay in one that has unlimited risk? Yeah. We define unlimited risk as $3. When this one has limited risk of $1, what makes one different than the other? So my answer to you is, if you're going to do one with one, do it with the other. Get out of both. We're staying both. Two days to go. We've been struggling with this for the last couple of days. You've given all the time you have. Now it's just a 50-50 shot. All right, that's what I want you to do in such a way. Your decision, your account, I want you to own it. I got a trade fee to look at in X. All right. We only have about three, four minutes. So let's go to the trade page. Oh, and by the way, you're carrying about 115 short deltas with a Dow up $100. Your positions are actually working pretty good. You're not even getting help from your lungs, which is Monsanto. OK. Close-up September, if you can go to a chart of X, that would be great. I just want to see the IV rank. I think it's around 73%. Here's a stock. This is a year-to-date chart. Actually, I think the stock over the last two years has never been lower. You could have said the same thing at $14. You could have said the same thing at $14.5. It's a month. It's on its butt. It's a low-price stock. So mechanically, just like the canceling replace, mechanically, low-price stock, $13 stock is a low-price stock. Not because the stock was $27, just $13 a low price. You got tightly-quid markets. It opens up all your strategies. Low price stock, high implied volatility, covered call, or naked puts. Let's take a look at X. So what call would you be looking to sell if we're going to go to October if you were doing a covered call? First strike out of the money is $14, right? So let's right-click on the 14 call, go up to buy, and go over to covered call, covered stock, and just change single order on the bottom left to Blastall. So that trade, $12.81 takes about $350 worth of buying power. I can firm and send one times to make sure. $340, $335 worth of buying power. All right, close that up. Break even on a stock, $12.81, where's the stock right now? $13.60. Let's just call it a 65 or 75. 65 or 70% probably the success on the trade. That's making one penny. Lattered, backward-dated, backward-dated, laddered puts. That's selling put basically at the same price in each month. X happens to have October and November options. November has about 65 days to go. So if we were looking at selling, let's say, I mean, just for argument six, look at the return on capital. I know you were in a finance business before this, and a finance class at school, 33% return on capital. That means the buying power reduction is somewhere around $150. So you only need 150 bucks to sell one put that has about a 75, 75, 70% probably success. Same thing as the other one. It's the same direction. So you're just reducing cost basis as the... Both are bullish. Let's sell one of the 12 puts, and then hold down the control key and go to November, and try to sell the same put that collects around 40 cents. You look at that 11 puts fine. The 11 put trading at 54 cents, hold that down. Now you're selling the whole... I think you put the 10 put, make that the 11 put in November. There you go, thanks. You're selling the whole thing for around a buck, 96 cents. You're using about $240 worth of buying power. So one is a little bit of a longer duration, slightly higher probability of success. That would be the backward-dated ladder puts, or the covered call. They're both essentially the same type of trade. They both use about the same amount of money. You could make a little bit more money in the covered call. Your decision on which one you make, you can tweet it out, and I know your trades are gonna eventually be on Dole probably next week sometime. Yeah, we're working on that. Okay. So everybody'll be able to see this on Dole when you place a trade as close to Twitter. Yeah. Okay. Let's just kind of go over what we talked about today for a moment. We went over all of your September trades because expiration's on Friday, today's Wednesday. We've buttoned up most of your positions except two. You're gonna decide on what you do with those. And then afterwards we decided to talk about US Steel. Stock that's been cut in half over the last year. It's on two or three year low. That doesn't mean anything, but I'm trying to say you have price extreme. Maybe we could go for a bullish position. The two type of strategies that we pick in a low price stock with high implied volatility is a covered call or backwardated ladder puts. One gives you a little bit more time to be right. Backwardated ladder puts. The other one is a little bit quicker moving, although not that much quicker moving in the covered call. Your decision on which one you do. Awesome. Good job, Adiude. You're accounts up nine dollars. How do you feel about that? Bicycle for Starbucks. Everyone normally say, well we got Tim Nax, but out. Nice shirt by the way. You stepped it up a little bit. It's about time. Peace. I'm so much better than you.
Video: 028 - Portfolio Review 09 18 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm going to get back to the next one. I'm going to get back to the next one. Nick, you're back. When do I start? Bat vs. bat. How are you, son? Been a great day for me. Close a couple of positions out. Um, for winners, they were, it's nice to close winners. It's good. Better than rolling losers. Yeah, it's a lot better than rolling losers, but yeah, I could see that. It's not going to be the first time in a row. It's going to be the first time you're rolling losers into smaller losers or scratches. That's, that's a great feeling as well, but there's nothing better than closing a winner. That's just ok. So it's good that you mentioned that, because I have two slides that I want to show you. Linda, can we put up the first slide if you get a chance? We're going back to the 24th of August. So we're at September 18 right now. And this was kind of the whole We'll get it going. Maybe not. Do you have something set over there maybe? No. Okay, why don't we go to your trade count and I'll do it backwards and maybe they can figure that out. So if we go and can go to... Oh, there we go. Perfect. You can leave that there. Okay. This is back to August 24th. This is the account you had. Apple, CNX. These are all Monsanto. We still haven't had a win in here yet which becomes... Oh, there's a win. There's a problem in the bottom. This was a day you lost about $2,000, $1,900, $1899. On top of already being down $1,000 in your account, almost down $4,000 a year-to-date P&L. Previous to this, you were doing okay, making a couple of bucks one way or the other. You went on vacation for a week, lost all your money there. For a while. Bad feeling. Terrible, terrible positions. Everything that we did. You could see. It wasn't good. And I tried to talk to you at that time about how... And I'm not doing this to Glow. I'm just doing this to show you how the... If the market cooperates and by cooperating meaning if Altile goes high, if Altile goes low, it goes up and down. It doesn't go in one direction. If the market cooperates, meaning it doesn't go in just one direction, it goes up, it goes down, it goes... It keeps coming back forth. There's going to be a time that you're going to be able to manage these trades, significantly better than what they are even at winners. Now let's just go fast forward for a day or two and just staying in this. And the volatility went up by 100 fold. Here's on the 27th. You're making some money back, but you're down $2,100. And around this time I said to you, you know, what does this mean to you? I showed you that your theta was around $100 a day. It's $97, $97. I said $100 a day. You're going to need about 20, 21 days just on theta decay for your account to get back to even. And that's unrealistic. Because first of all, it's not linear. Theta decay is not linear. And you can't expect everything that you have to go your way. It just doesn't work that way. So I said, you know what? You're probably going to need three, four, maybe even five months. But it's going to be a great learning experience. You know, you had... You learn a lot from winning trades. You learn how to smile. You learn how to think you're a genius. You learn how to... Feel like you've got this game wrapped up the only time you really learn on a position is when it goes bad. And it's small enough that it's not hurting you. Meaning you're still able to pay your rent at home. You're still able to make your car pay me. You still have to pay your phone. Whatever the case may be. You get to a point where you say, okay, now I'm going to tighten up my boots. Now I'm going to really start looking for things to do. Let's look at your trades that you had on you didn't close any of these trades. We managed them. We rolled down the untested side. We closed some at small losers. We closed others at 50% winner. Let's take a look at Nick's account. How it's doing today. Same exact account. You just closed Apple yesterday. You just closed CNX yesterday. Here you are. You're down $160 for the year. You've just witnessed live through six months of bad trades and good trades to get back to even. Believe me, being down $160 is nothing to applaud. Unless you realize you were down almost $4,000 a month ago or less. That's really a great learning process. It has nothing to do with trading well. Because we didn't trade well at all. We put on good strategies. Whether the market accommodates your assumption and your strategies is another story. But the setup on entry was all good, even with the worst timing. Lord, help us with our timing. It could be really great for us. Today you got some good timing. Let's bet away your position going to SPY. Betoate is put SPY. It shows you long 63 delta before he clicks on it down there on the bottom. Let's click on it. You're actually short when you bet away everything about 90 delta as an SPY. Your biggest position is an IWM. Even though you're a largest delta position is an IWM. Even though your largest buying power reduction is an SPY. You're basically short IWM against a flat to short market everywhere else. You said you found a trade that you wanted to take a look at. It was in Connico, Philip, COP. Let's go to trade page COP. We didn't discuss it. I let you pick your strikes. People go there and then we'll look at the clothes. I let you pick all the strikes. I don't know what strikes you're going to pick. We didn't talk about it. What's the IV rank in COP? Let's go to a chart. It's in the mid 60s. Mid 60s is actually pretty good. It was up around 100 when everything was in pull. That's that down where it went to $41. We went around 824, 825. Okay, 61. Yeah, it looks good. It doesn't have earnings coming up. No, it's in like 41 or 42 days. So it's outside next month's expiration. COP, please. Let's go to trade page. So the setup works. Now what other oil type related stuff do you have? The light X. The US steel. The same industry. You had GG gold. Yeah, I mean, commodities. A lot of commodities. Okay, all right, so go ahead. A little bit correlated. Yeah. Okay, so what do you do? So I was going to put on a strangle. A strangle. Strangle. Oh, your chain. A strangle or a jade that's depending on, I mean. Well, a strangle is pretty easy to pick. And I'm just looking quickly at the strikes. What strikes would you use for a strangle? I was looking at like the 45, 42. And a half. Yeah. If this was SPY diamonds, cues or some other thing, apples, kind of go Phillips. When was the last time you traded kind of go Phillips? Never. Okay, I haven't traded it in probably two years. So it's not, I'm strangle is not my thing to do with something that I'm not used to trading. Especially something that's kind of been on its butt. Which is fine. I mean, I'd rather be a little bit bullish. So let's look at the, I'm not going to override you. But let's look at the jade lizard. If you're going to do a jade lizard, what strikes would you pick? I mean, couldn't we keep those strikes? Or... You tell me, with jade lizard is selling a call spread? And selling a put. What could make it put? Yeah. Go ahead, work with it. So we keep the 45 put. Okay. So you sell the 45 put? Now what are you going to do? That's a good strike, 30 delta strike, 30 probably being on them. Are you got it right so far? And then I think it's two and a half point wide. It is? So we'd have to go like the 50, 52 and a half. Okay. So let's sell the 50, 52 and a half call spread. How's that look? 150 credit. 146 is the mid price. So 146? How's that look? Looks okay to me. Why? I mean, I'm collecting over a dollar for it. How long are you mistaking two different things? So collecting a dollar is for a strangle. Yeah. This is not a strangle. This is a jade lizard. A jade lizard you don't want to have risk on one side of the trade. The side that you don't want to have risk on is the side that you have the vertical spread, that call spread. So you'd have to collect $2. This would have risk to the upside. To the downside. To the downside. So it's like you're selling that call spread there for 60 cents, which is not the best way to collect one third of the width of the strikes, which would be more like 80, 90 cents, 60, 70, 80, 90 cents, 60 cents is kind of not enough. So let's move the call spread down. Yeah. You got $2 wide strike. So you've got to kind of move the put up. You've got to stick to the rules. Yeah. So let's move the put up from 45. Let's just save time and go to 47 and a half because that's what you're going to have to do. And you still don't collect half the width of the strikes. Okay. So then we're out. That's fine. Exactly. We'll move on. So you can go to a string. Now the discussion would be, okay, do I want to do a strangle in here? Yeah. Okay. Since you wanted to do a strangle and you closed your diamond trade, I know you had on a diamond... It was an iron condor. Iron condor. But it was a $4 wide call spread by a $10 wide put spread. It was a wide one. So let's look at a strangle. Since you only are using... Yeah. But I'm going to put some buying power out there. Okay. You're using $11,000 worth of buying power. We were up to around $23 or $4,000. So we certainly can put some 28 days to expiration. Let's go into diamonds. It's not my favorite one to go into. You can go to a chart of a two if you don't mind. We only have about three minutes left, Nikki. So I'm going to have to go quick. You're looking at a 40% IV rank with the volatility forstless VX up $1.17 today. Not the best, not the worst. I mean, I want it to be over 50. We haven't had over 50 prior to July for four months. So 40 will bend the rules. I don't want to bend the rules, but we'll bend the rules. Let's go into DIA. Just for the sake of time, we put the position down for a moment. Thanks. We're going to stay in October. Let's go to the option that has around a 15% probability of being in the money. So you're looking at the 151 puts. And let's do the same thing on the calls. Let's just go to the same one that has about a 15%. Let's go to 170 calls. It's fine. OK. I've had some success in my own account kind of skewing these a little bit, meaning looking to collect around the same amount of money on each side. So let's leave that 170 call and move that 151 put up to the 155. Now, we have short deltas in your portfolio already. Now, you'll notice the probability of being in the money on that 170 call is 18. Let's look at the 155. The 155 is about 22. It's actually going to give you a little bit of long delta or basically neutral. Strangles typically have a short delta to them. This is your kind of, by moving the put up a little bit, you're kind of taking that short delta out, making a very neutral trade. Now, top of a short portfolio. OK. Sound good? You collect a little bit more than we normally do around $2.07. Is that OK with you? Yeah. What price do you go in here? If the natural is 205 and the mid 207, what do you think the offer is? 206. 209. It's going to remember the mid price is always the middle. It's 204. 207 now. The offer is 210. OK. Makes sense? Yeah. OK. All right. Let's go in at 207 and you can adjust it down to penny or two if you want to. Cool. All right. All right. Good job out of you. Let's take a quick break down just to talk about what we re-talked. Let's just discuss what we talked about previously. We talked about looking at your position just from August 24th till now, down almost $4,000 to down 200 bucks in your account. That's how this process and anybody who survives it out there over the last four or six weeks, who stayed mechanical, kept their size right, stayed with the program, kept swinging at the market, got rewarded. And it was like a year of trading in six weeks. Hopefully, we have that moving forward into perpetuity. Yeah. It's great trading when things are moving. All right. Good job, buddy. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. The line normally says, peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 029 - Theta Drag With Otm Call Spreads 09 24 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Music Nick you're back! Where do I start? That versus bat, how are you son? Good, just late rally so far as helped my account. Emini S&P's down $4, Nasdaq down $6, Dow down $63, it was down about $280, almost 300 points. We've had a 200 point rally, a 25 point rally in the Emini S big day. Every time we come on the show, the someone like big happens. As soon as we sit in these chairs, there's some kind of big movement. You know what, this industry always has opportunity. And that's like you're saying big movement and you're right. Today, in relative, is a big movement to the implied volatility. But every day, there's opportunity. Maybe it's not in the stocks that you trade all the time, you'll find it someplace else. Let's take a look at your account. I think we can go a little bit longer today because we've had a little bit of problem with some of our internet feed today. So maybe we can go to about 225, so we do a little bit of an extended version here. Your account looks a lot different right now than it did earlier. You're down about $10. We'll call it unchanged for the day. You're down about $80, $90 for the year. You were down, do you remember about how much the... This morning was a 250? Like 250, almost 300 at one point. And that's because, let's go to beta waiting. I go into SPY. And notice on the bottom right now, it says 218 long deltas. Let's beta wait everything. You're short, seven deltas after this rally. So this is kind of where you came in. Actually, if you open up your filled orders, we roll down a call. This is not a defensive move, although it did pick up a little bit of short deltas. It actually picked up about 10 deltas. So your accounts flat. And if you're accounts flat and you're long theta, that means you're actually a little bit long the market. Because you're going to pick up more long deltas as we go down. You picked up about 50 or 60 long deltas as the market was going lower. And that's why you started to lose some money. And a lot of them are naked puts with call spreads. Those call spreads are almost worthless. In the diamonds, we roll down the naked call from the 70 to the 66. You're also short to put against it. Still have a strangle. Notice the delta on the diamonds, negative four. It's a neutral position. So you had a little bit of long delta because you were naked short to put... Is that like 61 right now? So it's about equal distance to both my strikes. Exactly. Exactly. So you really didn't change anything. I say that was from a strength move because you're actually up about $40 on that strangle. So it's over around $2,000 in change. And it's trading for about $1.60 or $1.60 in change. And we had positive delta in that before we did the roll down. That's correct. And now you have none. The 170 strikes. We rolled down, decreased some of the delta. Some of the long delta. Okay. So I have a couple things that I want to change in your position. But you had something new to do. And I'd rather do what you want to do new as opposed to looking at your existing position. So those that are playing along at home can try to find something. What were you looking at? I was looking at GLD Gold. Can we go into a chart of GLD for a second? It's like a $2 move today. Yeah, I had almost 2% right? Yeah. Yeah, almost 2% move. Stocks trading one ten and change. Okay. Buying premium, selling premium, directional trade. What are you looking at doing? Selling premium. Selling premium, directional trade. You bullish bearish? I would go neutral to bearish if we're, I mean, like to play off a big move. Okay. Okay. Remember this is going to be a 22 day or 50 some odd day strategy. So, you know, you can't think about just today's movie. You got to think about overall. I look at this as what does it look like from? Let's just go recent history in the last two, three months. Well, 115 throughout the highs and throughout the lows. Was it 115 to 105? Yeah. That's about the range over the last couple of months. Now, the interesting thing about GLD right now is that IV rank is 54. It really hasn't been higher. That's a year-to-date chart. I mean, in the beginning of January, it was higher. One of the couple of times it's been higher. Exactly. So, this 54 is completely different than, let's go back to TLT because you mentioned it yesterday. Yeah. TLT, I think, has an IV rank of similar. Well, it's 47. I thought it was more like... It was like 51, yes. Okay. So, this 50, 51 or 47% IV rank looks a lot cheaper than the 54 IV rank in gold. Definitely. Okay. So, I mean, you can't just take the numbers and run with that. It's relative. You have to look at it. You've got to give it... You've got to give it... Yes. 100% your heart is incorrect. All right. Let's go into GLD. Tell me what you come up with. I'm going to let you do this all by yourself. Well... It's going to a trade page. You want to go to Doh or you want to go to... Yeah. I was looking at the... What do you want to go? Doh or into Toss? We could do Doh. Okay. You got TLT should be... All right. Just put it right in. It was there. It just came out. I'm sorry. GLT. I said TLT. Pulled. Maybe I'll pull it up right here. Well, I was looking at the... 105 puts bread and then the 115, 120 calls bread. Neutral. Five dollars on each side just about... So, this is a completely natural plan. But I was thinking that we could maybe skew that... Or at least move that... To more bearish. All right. So, adjusting the... Are you adjusting the strike? Are you adjusting the strike? Are you looking at... I was looking at the November. Okay. So, change the strikes by just clicking on the expiration at the top there. We're as positive. And you keep the... the... the strikes the same. Yeah. 105, 115 short. Five dollar wide. Collecting about a dollar sixty. Okay. So... So... Tell me... tell me your thoughts on the trade. Like, why... I mean, walk me through it. Like, if I was new, walk me through it. When we were talking about, like, when we were looking at the graph, like, kind of throwing out the highs, throwing out the lows, this was basically the range it was in. And, you know, the move today, kind of put it right in the middle of that position. If we had looked at this, you know, yesterday when it was two dollars lower, maybe I would have skewed it to be more bullish. But, I mean, like, this seems to be a natural range from what I was looking at. Good answer. Good answer. A 55% IV rank. Yeah. A completely neutral trade. I have no... I have no problem with it. And the credit is just below, you know, a third the width, but it's right there. Right, about a dollar sixty-five, dollar seventy would be one-third the width of the strikes. That's what I was hoping that you were going to get to at some point. Yeah. It fits. It fits. Yeah. Okay. Markets one fifty-five, one sixty-seven, mid price is one sixty-one. Tell them we want to go. Yeah, go at the mid price. I mean, that's... Go into one sixty-one. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Let's try it. Let's try one sixty-one. Yeah. See what happens. Gold markets are fairly good. I mean, you know, they're... I think you have fields, right? Did you get filled? No, still working. Okay. Do you want to move it or do you want to keep it? Let's keep it. I mean, let's keep it for now. Okay, great. Perfect. No complaints. Cool. I think you checked all the boxes, past, past, past. I mean, it works. Cool. All right, so can we look at your account for a moment and maybe look at some things that I might want to do? All right, let's go back to toss for a second just because that's where we started. You could notice how your deltas have changed since your deltas went from negative seven to negative nine. What direction do you think the market has gone? It went from increased. I have a more positive delta from seven to nine. You had a negative seven? Oh, nine, yeah. A positive nine. Yeah. So it's gone down. The market's gone down? Yes. That's correct. It's correct. It had a negative seven. Yeah. And it's a positive eleven. Markets going lower. E-M-N-S-A-P's were down six. They're down twelve. Your account was actually up about five bucks a moment ago. It's down 31 cents right now. You already got some short deltas in your diamond position. So I like that meaning we rolled down. Not using any more buying power. You're not going to be here tomorrow. You're going on vacation. So you want to button up some of the positions that you have. There's two that I think we should look at. One is Twitter and the next one is Yahoo. What do you want to look at? Let's go to the Twitter. Okay, so let's open up the Twitter position. So in Twitter we have the 2730 strangle on. Now the 30 call is trading for around 30 cents. The 27 put is in the money. You'll notice that the stock is 26,024 cents. That's not any bells or whistles that should go off. But it does kind of, can you unbatowate that for me for a moment? Because you're going to see it probably has about 65 deltas to it. Oh, 30 deltas. Why was my mouth wrong? 30 deltas. I apologize. All right, so 39 deltas. There you go. So what would you do here? I mean, we could roll the call down to the 27, make a straddle. Okay, so we have 22 days to go. Still time to stay. We're kind of in no man's land between October, November. So certainly could stay here. Another answer could have been that you could have moved to November. Yeah, that's a checker earnings and everything else like that. Yeah. I like what 22 days gone and wanting some short deltas in the portfolio to roll down that call also. Yeah. Let's first look at the chart just for a second, not for pricing. But what the IV rank is in Twitter. Because if Twitter has a high IV rank, that would just check another box. It's not a gain changer. Like it has low IV rank. We won't do it. But if it has high IV rank, you can say, okay, yeah, I can do this even more. Like it's one more thing to push you in that direction. And here you have a high IV rank in Twitter. Yeah. Okay, let's go back to the trade page in Twitter. So we're going to roll down that existing call, that 30 call, to what? What do we roll it down to? Now, probability of being in the money is just like delta. So let's just say for argument 6, the put that you have is a short 60 delta. And the call that you have is a short, you know, 15 delta, 40 delta total. What are you going to do with that position? You got to go, you got to at least reduce it by half, right? Okay. So where do you go down to? I mean, we would want to go to like the... Change return on capital to position, please. The 28. I mean, would be the lowest or would be the highest strike price. The 28, the 27 and a half, we'll go straight to the 27. No wrong answer with any of those. So let's look at what the 28, 30 call spread, because that's what you would do, right? Because, you know, one of you's anymore buying power, you're just going to get some short delta. Yeah. And we don't want to do it for a debit. Well, you're never going to sell a call spread for a debit. Yeah. It can't happen. Always going to sell a call spread for a credit. Okay. So let's move it. So it's trading for around 35 cents. Just leave it there for a moment, change the 28 to the 27, because like you said, that would create a strangle. That's trading for 68 cents. Now I know 68 looks better than 38 or whatever it was a moment ago. But which one do you go to? I mean, isn't it choice? 100%. 100%. Now remember, if this was a $260 stock, instead of it being 68 cents, it might be $6.80. You know what I'm saying? So, yeah, 68 cents or 38 cents is a small number when you're learning how to trade on a small price stock. But you've watched these options. Yeah. They grow teeth. You're trading one lot, your account was down 4 grand at one. Yeah. Okay. So they grow teeth. So you respect them. Yeah. Where do you want to go? 27 or 28? Let's go to the 27. Okay. I personally would have said the 28 just because you said the 27. No. I'm just kidding. Let's go into 67 cents. All right. We're going to my price. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Awesome. Remember, there's no wrong answer. You got filled. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Um. I'm sorry. Yeah. Um. Well, I'm sorry that we forgot again. That was a really remote thing happened to be also this time we've just started working a couple of pages minutes. We should put up my conference and finally finish in total what we learned. Yes. Back in depth, it was almost 21 eighths of our festivities. Oh well, I could see a thing getting 50 clients. What happens? Okay, so you lost most of the money here today. We hate to have out of the money call spreads that were long because they're just theta drag, meaning instead of having more than two or three dollars in theta decay, that call spread is costing you money to hold now. When you put it on it costs you nothing because you were doing it basically for even with the stock or maybe even a little bit of premium. You also sold the 34 call which is trading for 10 cents now. You sold that for about 55 cents or something like that. That call's really the one that protected you. The one that a viewer called in and said, hey, you sold the naked put and you bought a call spread. Why don't you sell and add the money call to? You're not costing anymore buying power. It goes with all of your thinking. They were 100% correct. I propose that you sell out the 3032 call spread and you buy back your 34 call and just say short the 30 put which is the at the money put in Yahoo, let's go to a chart in Yahoo. You don't have to make the trade. We can do it later because I know Tim's going to be waiting. Yahoo of all the stocks that you have is down the greatest. It has a high implied volatility. If you wanted to sell another out of the money call, wouldn't be using any more buying power, I would say okay. Remember, this was our bullish trade being completely wrong on it. I think we bought ourselves some time. Let's lean a little bit long in Yahoo. What I suggest is we sell out the 3032 call spread that was our kicker. Buy back our call and just say naked short that put. If that put goes out worthless, you'll make yourself $70, $80 on the overall trade. What do you think it will cost us to buy out of all those options? It's not going to cost you anything. You're actually going to be selling premium because the stock is under 30 and you're going to be selling it along the 3032. There's less value. Cool. You're all right? Yeah. All right. Let's take a quick second here just to go over everything that we talked about. You want to put on a gold trade, which we did basically equal distance away, iron condor, $5 wide collecting almost one third of the strikes. I don't think we got filled on it, so you'll have to move it down a penny or two. You can do that on the break. We rolled down a diamond call spread to pick up some short delta. You rolled down a Twitter call spread to pick up some short delta. You're thinking about still staying long Yahoo, but not as long, which will also pick up some short delta because you won't be as long in Yahoo. Cool. You can enjoy your vacation in Vegas and if anybody sees them, they can buy them a drink. Send me the bill I'll pay for it like usual. Who comes up next? Who comes up next? Tim Knight. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 030 - Rolling Down Iron Condors 09 28 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back to the beginning. Nicky we're back. Where do I start? Bat vs Bat. Where do we start today? Where do we start today? It's a tough day. E-Mini S-P's down 46. When it moves this fast, it seems like there's like nothing you can do. It just happens so quick. Okay, so now that, that would seem like an obvious, like to somebody who does in trade, that would seem like an obvious statement. But when you're living it, it becomes like a true statement. Like there's, you know, it's like practical application and books and classroom and thinking about it. It's different when you have money on the line and it's your money on the line and you're trying to make money and fight it. Yeah, you're right. When it happens this quick, it's hard to adjust. That's why we say there is no such thing as adjusting. You change the position. You can minimize some of your risk. You can minimize some of your delta, but you can't manage a losing trade. It just is what it is. And that's kind of the theme of what I want to go on today with you. And you've got a bunch of them. Now let's put everything in perspective. Let's put your account up there real quick. And we've talked about this just about on every show that we've done with you because I really think it's a great lesson for people who are learning how to trade and are new traders like yourself. Your account was down $4,000 at one time. You're down a little over $400 today, $454, but you're down almost $370 of that today. At one point today, when the E-Mini S&Ps were down around 20 or 25, you were down like 30, 40 bucks. Yeah. And last week on Thursday, I was like in and out of up 10, 15 bucks and down 10, 15 bucks. So when you have a move like the Dow's moved 300 points today and you're down $300 or $400 in your account and you came in with some short deltas. Not a lot. 20, 30, 50 short deltas. But you're leaning a little bit short and you have the market go significantly low like this. You pick up long deltas. Let's take a look at your click on not weighted and make it beta weighted for me. Just put on SPY. If you notice before he changes this on the bottom there, it has 440 long deltas. You probably long about 100 deltas. Let's take a look, click enter. You're long about 110 deltas. When you look on that, IWM is probably your biggest delt to move. And surprisingly, so is Boba. Boba, you look at Yahoo and then X, two stocks that are, you'll notice your P&L for the year to date, two stocks that have been giving you, well those are the three stocks that will be giving you the biggest headache. Yeah. All right, so I've got a bunch of things for you to look at today. Let's go where the risk is the most. Let's go in IWM for a quick second. Let's go to trade page at IWM. You've got a high IV rank in almost all of these. Now, as high as it's been, open up October for me. I'm going to leave you November position the way it is. Let's go down a little bit further. Okay. Go a little bit more because you guys see the call spread. All right. So you're short, basically, and in the money put spread by a short call spread that's far out of the money now. Look at that spread. It's trading for around 23 cents. It's $5 wide. Yeah. Now, you've got a couple of scenarios here. Just scroll up for just a quick second. We can roll just the put spread from October to November. You can roll the call spread down from 115 down to about 111 and it looks like you'll collect around 90 cents. Or you can roll the whole thing call and put to November. What do you want to do? There's no wrong answer. I mean, wouldn't we want to roll the call spread down just because it's basically worthless right now? So close up October for a moment. And this is something we've been struggling with with the time frame of this move. You've got 18 days to October. You got 53 days to November. 45 days is our sweet spot. There would be no wrong answer. But since volatility is high, since you're carrying long delta already in October, rolling down the call spread is just as good as answers any of the others. Personally, I would roll down the call spread too. So let's do that. Let's go to October. Now is an interesting way to do this. We'll do it all with single clicks just to show you what we're going to create here. Now you want to sell the 111 call, correct? That's, I mean, I'm assuming that's a, here, let me, let me, let me back this up from a 30 delta. Exactly. You're looking for the option that's around a 30% probability of being in the money. That's our default place to go to whether it's an opening trade, rolling down trade. That's a, we'd like to go there. Sometimes we have to go closer. Sometimes we can get to go further, but that's our starting point. So if you click on selling the 11 call, now I want you to click on the call that we need to buy. Remember, we have a $5 wide original iron condor. The 115 of the ones were short, right? Double click on that. Just twice. Okay. So one of the 11 calls, buying two of the 15 calls and now go to the call that were long and then sell the one time, the 120 call. So we're actually selling a butterfly. So think about what we're doing. Show him the 115 call because I think this is pretty interesting for, for people to kind of who have never done this before. We would never sell to open a butterfly. We always buy to open a butterfly. Never sell. If I'm rolling down, creating a new position, getting rid of delta, and in this case, I'm trying to reduce my long delta they have, you're selling one of the 11 calls, you're buying two, well, change that from one to one to two, four to thank you. You're selling two of the 11 calls. Remember, we have two puts breads. You're buying four of the 115's. If you're coming in short, two are ready that will leave you with two more. Two more. So you'll be long too. Short two of the two 11's. You have no position there right now. You're buying four of the 115, so I'll leave you net long too and show him the 120 calls. You're long two of the 120 calls. You'll have none of the 120 calls. So with a butterfly selling it, you can roll down all three legs. All three legs have to be done at one time. There's no way of getting legged out on part of the position. Does that make sense? Okay, so I'll have, it'll be just two butterfly lots. Two, it'll be four and then two on each and then two long positions. Close it up for one second. Show him the puts bread for a moment. Stop right there. You're short two contracts of the 111, 106 puts bread. This is part of an iron condor. The other side of your iron condor is the 115, 120 calls spread. You're two by two on each side. We want to keep that relationship, not use any more buying power and keep it two by two. How can we do that? Well, what we would have to do is, let's do it this way. No, no, come back. Let's buy the 115, 120 calls spread. Okay, let's say we're going to buy that back. So you can right click and go to buy and go to vertical. I'm going to buy the 115, 120 calls spread. Okay, we're buying that back, correct? Now we want to roll down. Instead of single order, make it blast all. This is a great exercise for everybody. And I love that you asked the question, because if you asked the question, that means everybody else who's a new trader has the same question. And that's really what this show is all about. Yeah, we are going to eventually make money in your account. But learning is really the key to this. All right, so we're buying back to 115, 120. You've got that. That's pretty straightforward. Now we want to sell the 111, 115. Okay. Now we could sell the 111, 16, which would keep it $5 wide, because we have a $5 wide puts spread. But what I'm trying to make it 115, what I'm trying to show you here is, let's look at what we have. Make it two times, because that's what we have there. Now look at what we have here. Start at the bottom for a moment in red. We're short two of the 111 calls. How many 115 calls are we buying? Two. Hmm, let's take a better look. Four. Four. How many 120 calls are we? Because we're canceling out two of them. Because we have the two shorts at the 115. Forget about what our original, right, we're buying the 115, 120 calls spread. Right? Yeah. So if we want to do this at two separate trades, I would buy the one 115, 120. Then I would go in and sell the 111, 115. You're not getting it. No, I'm a little lost on this one. All right. Let's try it a different way. Show them the call spread one more time that were short. But see if you can keep that bottom part position up. Yeah, now. First, okay. So where does the butterfly come in? That's where I'm missing it. Yeah, and I'm struggling with how to figure it out for you. What is a butterfly? I mean, it's two long positions and two short positions. You have the two shorts in the middle and it's got a long position on each side. But they're all the same, aren't they? All calls, all puts. A butterfly is all calls, all puts. You are long, let's use calls for a moment. You're long one call spread and you're short another call spread. That's exactly what we're doing here. The butterfly trade that I wanted to put on is just showing you how to do two separate, think about what a butterfly is. It's two vertical spreads, right? Yeah. Okay, well, I'm doing the two vertical spreads instead of doing them at two individual times. I'm doing it all at one time and it's called a butterfly. Don't get caught up on the analogy of what it is here. Let's do this for a moment. Let's buy the 115 call, double click on buy, just buy the 115 call two times. Okay. You're going to hold down the control key. Okay. Now go back down to the 115, the 120 call and sell that. Okay, so we're buying back the spread that you understand, right? Okay. Now go up to the 111 call. That's the one you want to sell, right? The 111 call? Yes. Okay. Double click on that two times. I mean, okay. So now I'm buying back, look at the last two. I'm buying back to 115, 120. Now I'm selling out a 111 call. I have unlimited risk to the upside on the 111 call, right? Yes. Okay, because I don't have that 115, 120 call spread anymore. How can I cap my risk and still not use it anymore, buying power? My buying power is $5. Okay. So then we'd have to buy too long call. We have to buy too long call somewhere. In this case, we could certainly go and buy the 116s or any other call that we want to to cap our risk. Let's just buy the 115s two times. So let's buy the 115s two times, you can do it that way. So now all we did was we created a butterfly. We bought back our original call spread, the 115, 120, and we rolled down the 111 call. And just so we're not using any more buying power, we bought back two of the 115 calls to make the 115, 111, 115 call spread. Okay. And we're keeping the puts. The put side is going to stay. Put side stays. Okay. Well, you're reducing your delta, right? Okay. With the IWM down $3, I would like to roll into strength. We're still keeping a long delta, but we reduce some of our long delta. I also wanted to roll your X calls in this segment. I also wanted to roll your Yahoo calls, your Q calls. I wanted to take off your Tesla trade, so we got kind of hung up on the application on how to do this. Appen some time. It does happen, but it's more important that you become clear with the process than getting to your overall account. We'll get to your overall account. Cool. Okay. Yeah. You understand what we did there? Yes. All right. Cool. There'll be a test on Tuesday on this. This is what happens when you go to Vegas on the weekend, you come back like a mushroom. Sure. All right. I wanted to talk about, let's take a quick second just to discuss what I want to talk about. I want to talk about damage control. Do we put on new trades or do we look at existing positions? Well, the short answer is you have to look at existing positions first, but I wanted to add new trades too. So I honestly wanted to be really aggressive and do almost five trades today in the account. We got to one adjustment, but you want to know something? That's where you are. That's where a lot of people who are first starting out had a trade are. Don't be disappointed with today's segment. You should be disappointed with your account. Boy, you got some bad positions. I'm just kidding. Yeah. Who comes up next? Tim Nye. What do I normally say? Peace. Peace.
Video: 031 - Adding Positions With Minimal Buying Power Reduction 09 29 2015.mp3
Transcript:  How did you come up with that answer? I got a little bit back from the losses yesterday. Markets relatively unchanged, so the positions overall haven't changed too much. Let's take a look at the at the monitor tap for just a quick second and go through that. So did you happen to see earlier today, even the S&P's down $3.50, down $20, NASDAQ down $26, kind of a big move in the NASDAQ. Did you happen to see your account when the Dow was up 100 today, how your P&L was doing or when it was up 50 or 70 or anything like that? Not really. You didn't get a chance. Okay. So you'll notice right now you're up around 50, 60 bucks a P&L day, you're down about 400 for the year. I think you lost about 300, 325, 350 bucks yesterday with the E-MNS&P's down $45. With the E-MNS&P's up earlier and the Dow up 100, your account was actually up almost $300 at one point. Now all things were clicking and you know, things that you were long were going higher, things that you were short were going lower. We don't have that environment right now. The reason I'm mentioning that to you is you obviously with the E-MNS&P's trading near the lower end of their range for most of the day, you're only up $37, you were up around $300 and the market was higher, you must have what kind of deltas? You have long deltas in your account. Let's beta weight your position. But I was trying to show you just a little bit of market awareness on your own account. You know, without even having to beta weight it, you know, you can tell that, hey, when the market was going higher, I was doing a click, click enter. You're long about 100 deltas, which kind of makes sense to the movement that you've had in your account. Now, as you can see, your P&L going a little bit lower for the day, the market is probably also going lower. A little bit lower. Yeah. Okay, so I'm just trying to tie it all in. So, you know, if you don't have your eyes on the spools or the eyes on what's going on, you can at least correlate what's happening in your overall account. It doesn't always happen that way. But listen, if you have deltas risk in the market, it's making a big move. You're probably going to feel the effects of that in your P&L. All right. So, when you beta weight your position there, Boba happens to be one of your larger positions and then IWM also happens to be one of your larger positions. Diamonds middle of the road, TXM, but they're all, you can see that they're basically all positive there. That's not good. And the one short that you have, Pandora is actually costing you money today. Pandora must be high. Yeah. They had a little rally today. Sixty cents. All right. So, stick in the ETFs. We're kind of in no man's land right now with 50 some of our days to go to November and a much shorter period of time, 22 days or something like that in October left expiration. We're kind of in no man's land. I look at those diamond deltas of 11 and I'd like to try to change those. So if we could change those to a short 10, that would bring us in about 20% of our deltas that we have on. Now this one, we've got to slowly kind of whittle it down. We're going to accommodate so that our deltas will change also. So it's only a snapshot of here and now. All right. So I really want to look at like your portfolio delta risk. Let's go into, let's go into charts for a quick second. And let's just look at IWM for a moment. There's your Baba. Okay. So IWM down about 8.5% over the last 10 days. Just as a visual, I guess the 8.5% is really all you need to know because we'll compare the last 10 days. So let's go into SPY for a moment. Look at about a 6.5% move. Let's go into the QQQs. About a little over 7.5%, 7.5%, 7.3%. Let's go into the diamonds DIA. All right. Diamonds down just under 5%, 4.8%. I don't know. If we continue going down there, probably all going to continue going down. If they're going to continue down, I think one has ground to make up, it might be the diamonds. I mean, I like to be a contrarian. I would rather sell if I had no position on today, I'd rather sell the diamonds than sell IWM. Does that make sense? Just because one's down 8%, the other one's down 5% or less and the one's down 8.5% one's down 4 and 3.4%. They usually move about the same. They usually move together. If one's up, the other one's typically up. I'd rather sell the diamonds than sell IWM. OK. Is that fair? Are we going to go on the call side just because we want to get those short deltas? We have to go on the call side. Now you're right. We could buy a put spread, but you've got IV rank trading right around 52. It's certainly been higher, but typically it stays in that 35 to 25 IV rank. So you have high IV rank. You already have a 1 by 2 put spread on the diamonds to the downside. And we have a strangle as well. You have a strangle on an October on the diamonds. So you have a strangle on that uses a lot of buying power. You have a 1 by 2 put spread on that uses a lot of buying power. So all things being equal, you could sell a naked call and probably not use any more buying power in your overall position. OK. Remember, you're ready because I have the two short puts. So I have like that. That's correct. Make up first. You already have the risk on an margin account. It's just like an iron condor. It takes the consideration. It factors in whatever one has more risk than they could call the naked put and then it charges you the highest buying power on that side. The call might have a little bit more risk, but all things being equal, you know, if you have $4,000 worth of buying power used in the diamonds, maybe you'll have $4,200 worth of use of the buy power. You don't have to buy that out of the money option. So something to think about. All right. Let's go into the diamonds DIA. And let's stay in November. And we already have it set to your position. So that's good. So there's that 1 by 2 put spread that we put on yesterday. I think it's a small winner. It really is a volatility play. Also giving us a little bit of downside protection to a degree. If it goes below significantly below 140 or so, then you start to lose money on that position. But if the diamonds are 140, we're going to have a lot of other problems. Exactly. So let's go a little bit higher. You'll notice you have no calls on in November. So to my point of, you certainly couldn't sell a naked call. All right. You can do a spread. All right. Where do we like to start when we're looking for an entry on selling a call? The 30 delta? Exactly. Something around that probably being in the money. No argument if you went to the 165 call. No argument if you went to the 166, 167, 168. You can even in my eyes go up to the 169. We like to collect around $1 at least. Like when we're selling a strangle, we like to collect around $1. That's like 50 cents, 60 cents on both sides. And if I'm going to sell a naked option and use $2,000 in buying power, I like to collect at least $1. So any one of those, you tell me which one you want to be. Well, if we were going to try and get to like a negative 10 delta, wouldn't we go to that 169 strike? Okay. So think about it. You had? Because we have 10 positive delta now. Okay. If we're going to gain 20 negative delta, we're going to be at a negative 10 delta. Overall. Correct. Around 168 you're saying, right? You said 169 would give you a little. Yeah, 168 or 169 is right in between there. I guess the 168 is going to give you the 10. The 10 that you need. Okay. 100% agree with you. If you sell that 168 call and it has a probability of being in the money of 20%, what's the probability that the diamonds trade 168 in the next 52 days? 40%. Because it's double. Perfect. Perfect. Really good. So you do listen occasionally. Yeah. Sometimes. Just takes about 12 times. Got it. Okay. No, it's good. Good. Everybody out there has 25 years of experience like you. So 30, they're two wish. Now I was trying to make you sound younger. I appreciate that. I did myself on my own lip. Yeah. You certainly could sell a toy now. So your overall delta in your portfolio was 100. Let's just assume that diamond delta as an SPY delta are about the same. They are about the same one or two different. So you'd only be taking off. About 10%. We like to take off a little bit more. So I think in this case, no matter what my market opinion might be and I think we're a little bit oversold, I still think volatility high, FOSLAG VX is up 35 cents trading $24.45. I think you should be going down to that 165 area on the diamonds. And I think you can sell a naked option. Okay. Let's do that. Let's go down by 20 delta overall. It waited to spy. In your diamond position, 30 on your overall position. Right? Yeah. Okay. Let's put one in. Let's go in at 246 and see what happens. Sound good to you? Cool. Yeah. Okay. The only other thing that we could take a look at in your position would be Baba. Let's go to BABA. It's one of the few. Yesterday we did a lot of... Remember yesterday we did everything we did yesterday was to get more short delta, which has kind of helped you a little bit today. Okay. In Bobby, you're going to have to go to October because that's where our position is. And you've perfect. Okay. So it almost looks worse than it is because that put is so deep in the money. 17% probability of being in the money. About a 34%, 35% chance of a touch. That great. But we don't need the stock to go all the way to 63. I mean, the stock went to 60 or 61. Today it got almost as high as 59. It's up about 40 cents today. What are your options here? Like what could you do? Either roll out to November or go inverted on that. Yeah. It's always the same. You're talking about repetition and going to that 30 delta option. You're 100% correct. Same thing with what we're looking at. How much premium do you think is left in that 63 line? In the 63. Just going to be a proximate number. 56, 57 cents. And the calls are on the puts and on the calls side. It's going to be, oh, that the call side is still out of the money. So, but it still has premium. You were working it out. You had it right. We just got filled in the diamonds. You had it right. How do dollars worth of premium? Because the call has 55 cents, 50 cents worth of premium in it. And the put has 50 cents, 55 cents worth of premium in it. So there is about a dollar left in premium there. That's not like a magic number that says, okay, I'm going to stay in this. All I'm saying is you're not getting that much if we're adjusting to it. Well, yeah, if you look to roll down to the 60 strike, you'd be picking up about 90 more cents. Right? And selling the 60, 63 call spread. And that would be kind of giving you a chance to just about break even, maybe make a small amount of money. Now, let's go to a chart of Bob before a quick second. Now, Bob, I think is down around 15% over the last 10 days or so. 14% over the last 10 days. That's our falling knife. It is our falling knife play, but that one to me could be the most coiled rubber band of all the group that you have. I mean, that if one was going to rally hard, the diamonds have certainly come rally hard. The S and P go certainly really hard. Bob, I can certainly rally even harder in my eyes. Now, I don't know if that's right. That's just my assumption. Yesterday you adjusted your X lower to get short delta, Yahoo, to get short delta. Today we did diamonds to get short delta. Yesterday you did a diamond one by two to give you a little downside help with basically neutral delta. We did the same adjustment with the cues to the same adjustment of cues we rolled those down. Everything we've done to roll down, the only one we haven't is Baba and that's like my shot. Like I'm taking a shot in that one. So most of your deltas are going to be coming from Baba, 20, 30% of your overall portfolio. Does that make sense? Yeah. I mean, to roll it down would certainly be okay. To go inverted would certainly be okay. And even if the stock rallied, you were still doing the mechanical thing. I don't know. I'm just saying our research shows 10% move or more. This is at a 14% move in a short period of time, 10 days. Maybe we get a little relief rally in here. I don't know. Maybe China. I mean, this is tight to China. Maybe I'm completely off base. I don't know. But at least I know that there's a high applied volatility. I sold premium the right way. I was a little bit bullish on the stock. I was directly wrong. How did you get beat? Cool. I'm in. All right, good. Let's take a quick second here just to go over everything that we kind of talked about today. And it really was just an exercise on portfolio delta and the risk that you have in your portfolio where you might have it and the buying power usage because listen, not everybody has unlimited funds. We all are tied to how much buying power we have. We didn't adjust from the diamonds where we used no more buying power even though we sold a naked option. Sound good? Awesome. All right, now we need a little bit of a rally in the market and then we can sell them with both hands. Who comes up next? Got Tim Nye next. Who peace.
Video: 032 - Rolling Inverted Positions Part One 10 06 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you were back when I start that versus bat how you son? Solid day Works been okay works been okay. It's been light surprisingly. Mm-hmm actually not surprisingly It's been a Markly neutral day, so yeah as a market, you know Has more gyration you're gonna get busier and support and same thing with trading and everything else like that I know for our show I try to give you the assignment of you know, hey, you know you go look for a trade you go find it You went rogue on me this morning like it Don't give me that yeah right about 835 or so I see something fire off in your account Let's go just take a look at your account statement tab for a moment. Let's go those filled orders And I'm talking about the first one there. It's a new trade you sold Lulu puts no 47 a half puts yeah You're actually up $11.50 on them. So I guess you hate it You hate the trade no, you see I don't hate the trade Well, I hate the trade yes Nod's kid I hate the liquidity in Lulu like it's not as it's there like like I I've looked for trades Tom and I have in the IRA account in a tough with earnings with earnings coming up and I mean it's the beginning of earnings season starting with a couple of days Right it's tough to find stuff to trade in and you know here I I It's a little bit chart of Lulu if we could go ahead. It's got higher IVR That's what I'm looking for when I when I want to go to the chart you're right So Lulu has been high and it's been high for a for a long time. It's 48% but in this in this 50-ish Over 50 when I got in this morning. No, I got it. I get it Stocks down 5 and a half percent over the last 10 days alone and it's just had a little bit of a blip up over the last couple of days All the criteria fits. I'm I'm glad you made the trade. I might appreciate it a little I am You know, hey, I'm thinking about selling this part or something but you know you'll fire away. That's that's good too I'm shedding the training wheels that's just like your five-year-old brother. Yeah, she's seeing him the other day Yeah, you you you're the one that I put remember that huge hill we had Yeah, right outside our house. I was like here you go Nick go You were a different type of boy than he is he's kind sensitive Carrying and considerate a lot of you are basically an animal Yeah, I mean I think you changed So he got soft on us. He got soft on us. Yeah more ways than one All right, let's take a look at Doe from it and see if we can find a new trade if we can't find a new trade Then we'll look to roll another trade That's the Tacy Trader. Will you click on the funnel for me just at the top there? No, that one's good Yeah, let's just see we have a 45 days check 50 to 100 in the IV rank check excluding earnings check Not a lot there. Well the Tacy trade grouping is the ones that we've traded in today on Tacy trade So that we could go to the notable stocks. Okay, let's do that that one's a Couple more It's just loaded up you got a couple more XOP Lulu Trade that you made it Nike you already have a position in FXY kind of a tough stock to trade that's the currency Japanese currency Deer is another one. It's a little bit hard to trade but but You could trade you could trade deer so maybe we can look at deer But you want to know something I wanted to take a look at Well, let's just take a look at your overall account for a quick second see how you're doing on the day Your baited weighted position is short about a hundred Delta's let's close up to filled orders you're up about 60 bucks today You've been up anywhere between about a hundred down about 10 for the day. Yeah, much up a hundred down 10 You're up $18 overall took a little bit on the chin yesterday Making it all back today, which is nice. We get a little bit of a sell off on the market your account will start to do a little bit better Too you're trying to I noticed something on your on your canceled orders Let's open that up for a minute now. I told you Lulu doesn't have the greatest markets and in your canceled orders I see no cancel and replace for you Lulu trade you can't explain that I put it in Five cents over the mid price. So I mean they have wide markets The mid price was right around 130 I put it in at 135 and did you really is it? Yeah, and then I let it sit it sapper about for You know five six minutes and then I got filled at 135 and got it okay Perfect perfect perfect perfect and I liked there are 15 to 20 cent wide markets Yeah, so it's it's wide and so okay I kind of went high on it. So then you did good price discovery when you didn't get filled you didn't you know You could have walked down the order like I would have been happy with that as long as like cancel replicors Yeah, but you said hey, I want to get full at 135. I'm gonna buy I'm gonna sell this put which would be a little bullish on the stock on weakness and Go from there. All right great. Let's look at let's go back into do for a minute and let's look at let's look at your ex position So let's go we can go to the portfolio wherever you want to go doesn't matter me. Let's look at ex All right in ex where we've got a little bit of a Well, you're short in October 11 13 inverted strangle and in November you're short the 12 straddle Straddle is the at the money calling it straddle is the same strike Call and put which is the 12 in in November if you can enough they can see it Maybe you can move the screen up a little bit more Perfect, that's the bottom two trades and then the top trade is the short the 11 short the 13 Stock is sitting right in between at looks like $11.74 and right in between I mean right in between your 11 and 13 strikes Let's look to roll that trade can we yeah, definitely So he's gonna highlight the two October positions And you're gonna create rolling order All right, so now I want to look to change something here like I want to take instead of Instead of like to buy back the 11 buy back the 13 call then I want to sell I want to duplicate the same straddle You have in November stocks $11.75 12 is certainly Neither bullish nor bearish. Yeah, although it has had a little bit of a rally with like a little bit more rally So volatility contracts IV rank is 84 Does have earnings I think coming up later in the month But we're already in yeah, it's got it's got earnings on 11.3 so It's a month. Yeah, I mean it's a lot of time. I mean if this was a new trade I probably wouldn't make it because of earnings But like you said like when I told you like let's look for something the best thing you came up with was was Lulu Good stock and not that look that much liquidity. Yeah, let's take this remember You're short the in the money call and you're short the in the money put Let's roll those strikes to November, but let's change it to the 12 put and the 12 call so let's double click on the putter one click Oh, you can just move it. It's even better Okay, and it looks like it's trading for around a 16 cent credit, but that market's a little bit wide now This is the way I would do price discovery on it. I would go in at 18 or 19 cents Not expecting a fill and then walk the order down now we're going from an inverted Strangle to an at the money straddle I'd like to do this and I prefer to do this when there's some sort of credit the more credit the better If this was an 18 cent debit which would be about a 35 cents 38 cent difference From what we're doing now I might this trade or I'm just trying to give you my guidelines. You know, remember this is a this is a $12 stock. Yeah, you know 20 cents a $12 stock is actually a big percentage. Yeah 20 cents in a $100 stock is not that big of a percentage. Yeah, so You really want to do this for a credit, but listen if I want to keep the dream alive Sometimes I have to pay I don't want to it's defensive new trade I'm not making it that way, but a rolling trade I'd make it if I wanted to keep the short 11 13 Strangle on you do realize if Go to the table view for just a quick second Click on table Okay, you you do realize that It can delta be intrinsic value. Have we changed that yet? Click on delta Yeah, you can if you scroll a little bit if you minimize the November you can it'll give you the full Perfect Go to extrinsic that's fine. Okay, in on the 11 on the 11 calls that you're in the money on Do you see what the extrinsic value is? 27 cents you put a circle around that? 27 cents Take a look at the 11 Put okay, the 11 puts trading for around 27 cents, right? This is that this is that parody I was telling you about like if you if you buy the call that gives you Long delta if you sell the put on the same strike that gives you long delta the combination of the two gives you a hundred long Delta's it's stock simulation the same thing as stock all right if I'm rolling this from October to November and I don't want to be Inverted I mean, I don't want to sell the in the money call maybe there's a dividend or anything else like that I can always sell the 11 put and sell the 13 call I'm short the 11 call in the money and I'm short the 13 put in October I can always Sell the the 11 put in November and sell the 13 call In in November and I have the same risk profile Okay, but you would still have your October position then are you talking about I'm rolling it? I'm rolling it if I wanted to roll it to the same strikes like a lot of times people say you know I'm inverted yeah, I don't like being inverted So you're saying switch them like switch as long as you keep the strikes the same yeah like right now the stocks right in the middle It's $12 yeah, whether I'm short the 13 call which has 18 cents worth of premium and I'm looking at October right now Just to give you everything together whether I'm short that one or I'm short the 11 It's the same exact risk profile if I roll it out to November Okay, all right, does that make sense? Okay, why don't you do that for credit though? No, you would not be able to do it. It would not say a credit. It would actually say a debit But it would be exactly the same thing. Yeah, but it would probably cost us a couple cents to do it a lot It would cost you a lot more than my straddle would Then rolling the straddle syntheticly no a rolling the straddle yeah, yeah, if you're gonna change the strikes Then you're changing the positions completely different. Yeah, but if you were to take that I'm confusing you and I don't want to confuse you A lot of times people say forget about you having a November position from it. Let's just say you had that 1113 inverted strangle on and you like that position stocks right in the middle. It's it's 12 You can take that whole position Switch it around and sell the 13 call which gives you just put a circle around the November 13 calls It's gonna give you around 75 78 cents worth of premium Calls on the other side. That's okay And Then you would do the 11 put which is all extrinsic also it's about 97 cents for a circle 95 cents you put a circle around that okay, so so you're getting about a $170 in extrinsic value But you would have to buy the call and the put for probably a little bit more right at that price But it's the same trade okay, you go from inverted to a regular strangle Okay, does that make sense? Yeah, I mean I follow I just I would imagine that it would cost me A fairly sizable debit for me to move my call up two dollars and I put down two dollars in the next expiration Not really On the next on the we ran out of money we ran out of time on the next show I'll show you the risk graph of Of of what the two positions look like forget about money for a moment the risk graph with the extrinsic value is gonna Be exactly the same and we'll do it next, but please remind me to mark so forget okay, all right? Yeah, all right So we're gonna we're gonna roll the one that we're gonna go in I think you're in a ready at 18 cents I don't think I don't think we've put it in yet. That's not the is that the right one? 1212 yeah, we're gonna roll to the straddle okay, very good. Why don't you confirm send and send work that down and that's correct It'll be on the file pages as soon as it goes through very good Let's say a quick second and go over what we talked about here talked about a few things went over some of your position Not most of it I wanted to go through a lot more of it, but we didn't have the time Then we looked at inverted strangles at least we talked about it I'll do a better job of it tomorrow. So I part two where we look to go from being inverted To not being inverted going to a regular strangle using the same strikes and I'll try to maybe I'll write up a card And it'll be a little clearer for you and a little clearer for everybody else. Yeah, I did a good job my fault All right, who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Knight next peace
Video: 033 - Standard Deviation And Probability Of Being Itm 10 09 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back. Where do I start bat versus bat? How are you son? Good happy Friday? You missed the creator happy Friday to you too. I do miss him sometimes I do too sometimes today just happens Not to be one of those days get along It's hour That's right. That's right. That's right enough of him cover boring day, right? No, but yeah I mean, so what's what was worse? Let's put up your account if you could for a moment So you basically unchanged today. You're actually up small surprisingly enough Yeah, but a lot of things going wrong for you, but you're up small today down overall five hundred and sixty bucks and change What was better yesterday where we had some action and you were losing significant money or today when it's boring I don't know let's say today because I'm not in the red today's better A little bit better. Yeah, I mean yeah, I don't know if I look at it that way I felt like I had opportunity yesterday and I didn't capture it there isn't I feel like there's like I haven't like just like that. I Can't play defense. I can't play offense. I can't you know look to find opportunity So today is like a really rough day for me. Yes, they was a rough financial day for me. Yeah, today is a rough day Equally as frustrating. Yeah, I guess is a good way of putting it. Okay, cool You have some trades that you that you you have a trade that you wanted to look at And I have some things that I wanted to talk about too, but I want to go to your trade first of all Open up Boba for just a quick second You have some work to do here. It's stocks up a dollar. We can't catch a break in there I really can't you know the worst thing you could do like yesterday if you didn't catch yesterday Show you basically throwing in the towel going inverted on the strangle and the stock rallies You know for the next two days or I think it was two days ago. We did it's sick terrible Like you can't even like you know you like you can't get out you say okay you beat me Just let's let's just dance no mercy. There's no mercy. Let's close that up And then you actually made a good trade yesterday in John Deere you sold a strangle and they got a little bit of a down move in there It's kind of like actually hasn't really moved much. It's stock you mean you stocks down 90 cents, but you're right I'm in a lot. That was you went a little bit closer with you call then you did you put you know you got paid everything worked out Well, it just stinks that you can't Get paid yeah, like you know you have one loser one winner that good. Don't worry it all comes together All right, let's go to the trade page. What did you want to look at? I was looking at a I mean like we said we've been saying it's hard to you know with earnings season It's hard to find you know stocks that don't have earnings right now So I'm looking at XLP which was one that I ETF it's an ETF For oil and gas it is one that I've had I had a good trade on it. Okay, so you going back to the well and no pun intended yeah, okay And so I was just gonna go neutral on it. What's neutral? Just delta neutral and Directionally neutral just I'm gonna assume November yes in November 45 days is our wheelhouse or closest to it 42 days Go ahead. So I was looking at the 35 put and the 45 call the 35 put and 45 call Can you do the favor can you change that from the price layout? I apologize. You just clearly don't take the trade. Thank you And you were doing the See what's the what's the delta? What's the probably being in the money on the 35 put? Around was it save? 21% was it say 23 probably being in the money? Okay, okay. Yeah, so I mean the actual piece come down a little bit today probably from when the last time you looked at but I Yeah, go ahead. It's roughly one standard deviation move neutral You know, I don't know what's the trading for let's open it back up It's over $122. Okay. Yeah, okay all right It takes about well to confirm and send one time figure out exactly how much buying power takes 400,000 buying power not a lot yeah relatively speaking Okay, cool. It's pretty much yeah, okay, I mean you're not taking any kind of directional bias on it. No, okay cool Let's let's go into our 21 you can change it after the show's over cool all right good Since you mentioned a standard deviation The research team was nice enough because we've talked about this a couple times and you've said standard deviation of 30 Delta's and then you went on both sides for 30 Delta's looking for a strangle They came up with two slides which we which we've used before but I think it's a great review And I don't know if you've seen them. So let's just let's just take a look at them So this is a standard deviation graph. I know you've seen this from school And I know that you took some engineering in school and I know that you took a lot of finance in school So I'm sure you've seen a bell curve before because that's what it is and during any Given time span 68% of the time just gonna round stock falls within that Standard deviation. That's why it says one standard deviation on the on that bottom access where it says current price The stock is gonna fall inside there 168% of the time now when we're looking for if I was selling a naked put I Would probably go to the Delta that's right around a 30 Like you said if I was gonna go sell a naked call I would probably go to that Call that had around a 30 Delta which would be approximately a one standard deviation So that's correct, but if you're gonna combine the two of them. Let's go to the next slide If you're gonna combine the two of them and you're gonna do a strangle like the one that you just did You have to pick those strikes that you just picked to get around a one standard deviation Now the one that you just used I think the one had a 23 and the other one had a 14 it's close enough Yeah, I'm not I'm not like I'm not sitting here You did it you did it perfectly today. I'm not sitting here saying you know which one you know You like you didn't do the right thing you did exactly the right thing I probably would have picked the same strikes to or maybe skewed it with my own personal opinion because you know I'm a genius. I know exactly where everything's gonna go You know as opposed to being mechanical what you're doing, which I think is the right way to do it But you would pick one that has a 16% probably of being in the money on each side Mm-hmm. So both of them equal around 30. Yeah, so you have one standard deviation What I was looking at was my break even points are roughly at the the one standard deviation Price points on either side. It's rough. Yeah On Doe Doe uses the credit received Right, yeah, it adds it to the strikes right? So you'll get maybe a strike or two off from think or swim or something like that Yeah, yeah, you're 100% correct. So maybe that was our disconnect and it wasn't the yeah It wasn't the slides itself of the standard deviation, but at least we did that. So yeah, now you have it Yeah, I like that everybody else has a tune. That's good It does it really good. Yeah, all right Let's go back to your trade page. Thank you so much guys on the research team and James in particular for for doing that for us Let's go to Your monitor to have for a quick second What are you gonna do about HPQ I don't know man Stocks only have three cents right now. You want to see a chart of HPQ just for those who are playing along at home Don't know what the stock has been doing lately There's your XOP which has been rallying a lot Same thing. I mean you look at XOP you look at he'll pack or you think that they were that they were correlated Right the two of behaved up almost 20% so what do you do you basically long stock short two calls Which is synthetically short a strangle not a bullish position was a neutral position Yeah, we kept our upside kept our upside and we have risk to the upside because you've got that naked They could call yeah, okay. What do you want to do? I Mean we got to get long on it so we I mean sell a put or sell so when you say we got to get long I you're thinking about reducing some of your delta risk not going long on the stock itself or are you saying well we need to We need to reduce the delta risk is what we need to do okay? Okay, okay, and I and I tend to agree with you with 42 days to go you know We certainly can afford to sell a put if you sold one put you probably wouldn't have any extra margin if you sold two puts You probably have a little bit of extra margin You certainly can do nothing and keep the directional risk to yeah, I mean that's something that you have to you know work on with yourself You showed about 170 Spy-weighted delta's but believe it or not this one only gives you about 15 here. Why don't we do it? Not weighted change it to weighted I think it gives you about 15's yeah, it's only 15 of your Down at the bottom. You'll see you're short 171 Delta's so it's so by selling a put in there you're really not reducing your SPY delta's by that much So when I think about that I say to myself okay Well, then I got to look at that as like almost like a standalone trade because it doesn't have much of a bearing On what the market is doing to my portfolio am I am I being clear with that? Yeah, I mean it's only 15 Delta so it's it's not it's not completely correlated to the market well Well, yeah, well, it's no it's not a big part of your portfolio It's correlated to the market by 15 delta. Yeah, but it's but it's not it's a small piece like SPY you have 43 delta's that's a big piece that's a big piece right now of the 170 that you're short So if I was doing something in SPY I'd say hey, I'm really proactively Changing my delta's on my overall portfolio so with that in mind you can keep your packet You decide what you want to do if you're gonna sell a put in there I'd be looking to sell an out of the money put probably like the 28 put stocks 29 and change that would be my put that I would go to either one or two or none that's your you're gonna do you'll do at the end of the show close up You look a packer and let's take a look at the cues Now in the cues you put on this is one as one trade I believe we did a uh Delta neutral iron condor where we sold the strike that had a 20 delta and we bought the strike that had a 10 delta That's why the put spread is so much wider than the call spread Now in the cues you certainly could roll up that put spread because look at the put spread that you're short The puts really you're short 20 cents. Yeah, you're down. We sold this for around You're down about 80 80 70 80 bucks on this trade after almost a 6-7% move in the cues Stinks you certainly can keep the directional risk or you can roll up the put spread so This is your homework Hugh Packard do you want to sell a put one two or none? There's no wrong answer One will keep all the delta's one will reduce all the delta's if you sell two puts in there You would probably have no delta in hpq Okay, you'd have more theta decay Yeah, you'd want the stocks still to go lower below 28 what you would be doing in hpq is open up hpq for a quick second Right now where do you want hpq to close at expiration? No right around my short strikes of 26. Yeah, perfect if you sold the 28 puts You'd want it to close right around $28. Yeah, it would be inverted Well, I would have that position would be inverted plus you'd be inverted one time You'd be long a covered call with an extra put that's why you'd want the stock to be a 28 Okay, okay stocks 29 and change. So you still be bearish You were actually bullish on the stock when we put it when we place the trade But now you'd want to be a little bit bearish like you are right now. Yeah, you want the stock to go lower. Okay In the cues it would really just be a portfolio Management moving up because you're gonna have a wide spread there the spread that that you have on there six dollars wide, right? Mm-hmm $5 wide $5 wide on the puts bread. Yeah, so $5 wide puts bread would probably add a few delta's long delta's to your cue position So it's up to you one put two put hpq or no puts cues to your roll up and to what strike? combination of both Or none of you of either just keeping the short delta that's gonna be all your decision I'm not a one I'm not gonna talk to you about it. It's a lot of work to do on a boring day It is a lot of work to do on boring day, but you've got 45 minutes. So you'll be fine. I'll be good All right, awesome. Let's uh Let's take a quick second here to recap what we did. We did a couple of things here We really looked at your portfolio to try to review it a little bit and then we also went to a standard deviation um and reviewed what a standard deviation is You were certainly clear on the concept and I don't think maybe uh I articulated it well enough on the show when we were doing all the trades Pass trades that we wanted to do when I was saying hey, let's go to one standard deviation But now at least you know where I'm coming from All right, yeah, good job out of you son Even the s and p's down three seven five oh and you got to decide what you want to do with boba If you want to roll up your put in boba and go more inverted you'd be locking in about a hundred and 25 dollar loss On the trade or you keep the directional risk again. It's entirely up to you. Cool boba's at a 20% move to the upside I think this market's getting a little long uh This rally's got a little bit you know extended extended doesn't mean it can't stay extended for a lot longer There's one of my portfolio hopes it doesn't well. I have I have about a 50% chance of being right. Oh, that's good point flat Who comes up next tonight next peace
Video: 034 - Rolling Into Earning 10 12 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you for back. Where do I start? Bat vs. bat. How are you son? It's going okay. Happy Monday to you. Happy Monday to you. Expiration week. Expiration week. That's actually going to be the theme of today. So Linda's asking me for a swipe card later off. Tell her that it's expiration week. Perfect. Let's get started. We got a lot to do. Let's take a look at your account right now. You're up 16 bucks. How's that fuel? Wonderful. Isn't it loudly watching paint dry? Yeah. You've got basically an unchanged marketing masterpiece or exactly unchanged NASDAQ 11, rostle down two and change. Stinks, doesn't it? Yeah. So it's about to be good or bad? This situation is bad. It has been bad. To me. Well, hold on because you answered that wrong. We have no volatility today. Do you like today? Yeah. No, I don't like today. Okay. So you haven't been on the positive side of trading as of yet. But would you rather have the opportunity to make some money and be wrong to have no opportunity to just sit? Yeah. I would rather have some opportunity. Sure. You want some opportunity? Yeah. Well, first I'm going to do since it is expiration. It is kind of house cleaning. Cleaning. So look at all your positions and then we can see we can find a new one. Okay. Or do something to it. Boba, let's open up the first one. Okay. So Bob is an October position. So that one we have to do something about. So let's just put a little star in our head and come back to it. Close up. Boba. Go to John Deere. 39 days. We're done. Go to the next one. Diamonds 39 days. We're done. HQ 39 days. We're done. IWM. Large position. Different strikes. All in November. We're done. Mickey. Not cooperating today. Up with the 52. We're done. OH. You do have an October position. Now this is kind of unique and we can talk about this for a moment. Using a lot of buying power relative, $1,200 for OH is a lot of money. That's really basically your little bit more than a full strangle. That's a string we have on November. In October, you're long 129 put short 327s. And I believe you did that. You did it like an 80 some odd cent credit. 82 cents. Yeah. That's a lot of credit. So if you bought back two of the 27 puts for 4 cents or 5 cents, anything under a nickel, you could charge no commission on the door rate. You could charge no commission for buying back any short naked option. This would consider it a single naked option spread. Excuse me. Not a spread. Single option. You can't short as a spread. Yes. I can't buy back that spread for a nickel and have no commissions. I can buy back the 27 put for a nickel or 4 cents or 3 cents, anything under a nickel for free commission. So you could consider buying back two of those. You'd have no risk at all. Only thing you can do is hit a home run because you're long the 297 puts bread. Drops down. Correct, which we don't anticipate, but something to do. So you can do OH, you can buy back your puts, you can do that, you're leisure. If you want to. Me, I buy back those puts. So here's the whole key on this whole thing. If you're going to buy back those puts for the rest of your life, you buy back all of those puts and calls that get down to be very, very cheap because the law of large numbers, you're going to pay 4 cents, 3 cents, 2 cents, 5 cents, 8 cents, 12 cents for something some day. One time or two times, it's going to go to a dollar. And that'll be your saving grace. Hey, I bought them back. The person who never buys them back is going to keep the 4 cents, 3 cents, 12 cents, 8 cents. And then one time they're going to have it go to a dollar and they're going to say, OK, well, I never bought back those other ones. It's six of one half dozen of another until you try to time it. This time I'm not going to get it and take them next time I'm going to or I don't have a feeling it's going to just set up in your mind. Stay consistent with that. Stay consistent. So I personally buy them back. That's just me. Close up OH. Qs. Nothing to go there. It's going to SPY. Nothing to do there. We're just looking for October. OK, same thing in Texas instrument. We sold the 47 Jade lizard, 47 and a half, 49 call spread. Well, actually, I guess it would be a big lizard. Big lizard. Thank you very much. Big lizard. Tight strangle with a wing. Exactly. You could buy back your 47 put. I think you did that whole trade for a smaller. I can buy that for you. Forget what we did in Texas instrument. Coming at you. Hold on. TXN. You did that for $1.82. The spread. The call spreads a buck and a half. So you did it for a $0.32 credit above to have no risk to the upside. If you bought back that put for $0.05, it would be no commission. If you bought it back for $0.78, there would be commission. But you'd free up all your buying power. Now, buying power is not a concern to you, but it's something to look at. Close up TXN. So that's something else that you can do. So I put that on my list too. OK. Next we rolled. So we're good there. Go ahead. XOP. XOP. That was a new one. Yep. And then, yeah, November. Close. OK. So OIH in Texas instrument, buying back, she puts, do it at your leisure if you want to decide what you're going to do in your life with them. OK, Bob, let's open it up. All right, we're short and inver. Then we start out long this stop. Could not catch a break. Let's go to a chart of Bob if you wouldn't mind. Should be up there already for you. There you go. Just go to Bob of BAB. Didn't we have, I think we had a Jade lizard on it this. And then we bought the, or we sold the long back and to roll down. And Bob, you started out short the 66, 69 calls spread and the 63 put. And we did it for 318. So you had no risk to the upside. Very similar to what you did in Texas instrument. Yeah. But the stock never cooperated. We went all the way down to 50. You can see there, 57 in change. And we were short to 63 put. OK. Now we fought it on the way down. We've been fighting on the way up. Didn't anticipate a 22% move in the last 10 days without an uptick. We just really needed one or two down ticks. We never got it. OK. So what do we do today? You got earnings coming. I mean, I guess that's the decision, right? Yes. We have to either decide if we're going to roll in two. So our game plan was to watch the stock stay in it this month and watch the stock stay in between our two short strikes. That's not happening. Yeah. So what do you want to do? I mean, listen, we have a plan. It didn't work. Yeah. So now it's closed at almost $300 loss or something like that, $320 loss. Roll up the put again, staying in October to say the 71 put or something like that or the 70 put. Pretty much locking about a $200 loser, $250 loser, or try to keep the dream alive and have earnings bail you out and move it into November. There's no wrong answer. So I'm going to let you own it. Yeah. Well, I mean, it lets you own the tough decisions. Yeah. It's freaky to go into earnings. I mean, to have that risk be there. But I don't know. I feel like that would even leave us with more risk. It's kind of giving us even. OK. So stop right there. So you're deciding not to go in November. What do you do now? Do you hold the trade and have the directional risk for the next week? Well, the next four days. Or do you close out the trade? I mean, that's the only. I mean, it's close, stay or roll. Yeah. That's what it is every time. What can we get for rolling it to November? It just says. OK. Let's take a look. So let's just close up October. I'll try to do this a little bit easier for everybody and open up November. Perfect. You can stay right there. So you're short to 60 call right now. 60 and a half call. There's no halves here. So let's just say it's the 60 call. If you're short to 60 call, if you were short to 60 call in November, how much extrinsic premium does the 60 call have in November? 87 cents. Perfect. Let's just round in same 90. OK, just for the sake of arguments. Yeah. Let's go up a little bit more. And you're short to 67 and a half put. How much premium does the 67 and a half put have in November? Uh, 260, right? Yeah. OK, so you're looking at around $3.50 if you stayed in those same strikes. That's about what you're down. OK. That help you? A little bit. So I mean, too close. So you would still have directional risk because you want the stock to be between 60 and 67 and a half, but you'd want it over the next 39 days. So what would be my game plan if I was looking to roll this? If I was looking to roll this, I would probably hope to get the directional move I need, stocked between 60 and 67. The optimal price would be right in the middle. Yeah. Felt to the contracts, and I get back half of what I'm down. I probably wouldn't be looking to stay into this trade throughout November. Yeah. I mean, hopefully getting out before the earnings. Mm. So you're going to come in up soon, I forget what date exactly, but they're soon. Within a week after expiration. I mean, it's a tough decision. This is trading. Yeah. You know everything I know. I mean, I don't know. I like want to. It's a 15 minute show. You got about two and a half minutes left. I want to extend it out. I mean, I don't know. It's tough to close that out and take a loser. Listen, whether you're a coach in football, as I was, when you were playing in high school and lower or you're a trader looking to trade your money, tough decisions have to be made by leaders. Yeah. Be a leader. It's your account. What do you want to do? There's no wrong answer. I've given you everything that I know. All right. Let's. Don't get me wrong. Whatever you do, I'm going to make fun of. I know. I know. I know. I know. I know. I mean, let's roll it and extend the duration. OK. So now we're going to roll it. We're going to stay in the 60 calls. So let's go to October. Let's buy back the 60 and a half call. So the overall credit, so I'm down $300 some dollars. So it's going to cost me a $3 sum to buy it back. Don't be concerned. Don't be concerned with like, you know, like what you're down. I know I gave you those numbers, but you still have to be mechanical in your, in your thinking, you're collecting more premium. No matter what this debit is going to show right now, you're collecting more premium. Are you locking in a loss for October 100%? Do you already have a loss in October 100%? But no, my question is if I'm going to do this whole role for, let's say, 20 or 30 cents, then it would lead me to more of just like kind of playing it out and letting, you know, letting it stay in October. Let me show you what you're going to do the whole role for. So before you talk about that. So let's buy back, you got the change, you have, you're buying back the call and the put as that we did there. Okay. And let's sell out the, let's make it the 60 call. We'll stay inverted just for the sake of the arguments and sell out the 67A of put. Okay. So it's $3.66. You're down $3.22. Okay. Okay. That's basically what we figured out to be $1.50. Markets a little bit wide. All right. So let's do it. Change your mind. Change your mind. I told you. It's for the whole thing to close it out in extend duration and take that much more credit. Yeah. Okay. Good. That's proper. I mean, right? That extends my break even range. I mean, it doesn't, it extends the duration. It doesn't extend, extend the range. I still need to show you in between. That's correct. Still in between 67 and 60. Okay. Let's do it. All right. Awesome. Let's change the credit. Oh, you did it. Okay. I was going to say you could change, you can work the order down yourself later on. Okay. You're probably going to need to get filled somewhere around $3.50. That's kind of what we figured that credit was approximately. All right. All right. Yeah. With the extrinsic value, that's how we figured that out. Let's take a quick break and talk about what we went through here a little bit. So really, it was house cleaning, expiration. Expiration is this week. We went through your full account to find out all your October options at Chaff and what you wanted to do with them. You really only had to take off two trades, OIH and Texas Instruments. If you want to, freeze up a couple of thousand dollars in buying power to use in November. And then the one trade that was kind of the pain, you had a look to extend duration or close, you decided to extend duration. And that was the process we went through in Boba. Cool. Had we done nothing in Boba, it would have been a huge winner. So yeah, from the beginning, who goes up next? Yeah, trading is tough. It's tough. Real trading is tough. Real trading is tough. Paper money trading. So hard. Piece of cake. Yeah, you always get filled in mid price. Piece of cake. Who's next? You got Tim Knight next, piece.
Video: 035 - Expected Moves Into Earnings 10 14 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you for your time. I think you were back. Where do I start? That versus bat? How are you? Saw a day for me. A little down move in the market and uh... It helps. It helps. It helps. It helps. It helps. It's a short delta that helps. Let's take a look at you. Let's take a look at your position before anything changes. I feel like we do that every time we start. It's like quick throw up is a count. It's looking good. You haven't been positive in a long time. 236 dollars today. I mean, having a good day down a hundred dollars for the year, really fighting back. It's a struggle. I mean, making money in a market, especially when you're trading basically one time a day, trying to stay with all the mechanics, you know, using proper buying power reduction. It's tough. Yeah. Stay the course. You've been doing it what, two months, a little bit less. You're basically even a little bit down. It's a huge win. Yeah. Huge win. Definitely. So with that in mind, we talked about possibly selling TLT call spread yesterday. You father told you to back off, which was absolutely the right thing to do with bonds up almost a point and a half today. A little bit more. Never gets any credit. Not even from his own son. But that's okay. We can go back to TLT, which has a low IV rank. 22%. If you want to open chart, we could just let everybody see what we're talking about. TLT or we can look at an earnings play. Now we haven't done an earnings play. Here's TLT, low implied volatility. Again, I would like to fade the move a little bit by selling a call spread. I can't. So I'd have to buy a put spread. It makes it a little bit less attractive to me. It's directional risk. Risk one or two to make one or two that kind of thing. Do a $2 puts spread for a dollar or a $4 puts spread for $2. Right at the money kind of thing. 50.50 shot. Yeah. Stocks substitution. Or we could look at an earnings play. There's two earnings plays in particular Netflix and Goldman Sachs. I mean, I'm ready for the earnings play. Let's get it. Let's look at Netflix for a moment. Okay. I look at this chart only to give you like what the IV rank is doing. And you can see that the IV rank is fairly high. So that's a good one percent. Stocks had about a six and a half percent up move over the last 10 days. Our researchers 10 percent is a number that we look at to try to say that hey, we love a reversion or price reversion to the mean. I mean that we would look to fade that move one way or the other six and a half percent is high. But no indication. I mean, asking you long or short on Netflix. I want this all to be your because you have to own it. If it's going to be your first earnings play. I mean, we're going to sell. We're selling premium in this. Right. But we can sell a put if you weren't it'd be long. We can sell a call. If you want to be short. We can sell both. If you want to be neutral. We can do an iron condor. If you want to have defined risk. I mean, so many things we do. I'm just asking what's your directional bias? I mean, with two days wouldn't we go for a neutral strategy that'll basically give us both room to the upside and room to the downside. So you don't have a directional opinion, which is an opinion that's that's okay. Okay, cool. All right, well, let's take a look at a couple of things. Then we'll say all right. So let's go into toss is fine. If that's what you want to go to, let's go into toss. Let's go into October with two days. Let's open up a bunch of strikes like 60 or something. You may need more than that. Yeah, there you go. Okay, so I'm going to make it the simplest one. And by simplest, I mean the easiest one for you to understand because we've done a lot of strangles before. Let's take a look at the, we want to go to the calls first. Let's go all the way up all the way up all the way up. Keep going, keep going right there. Stop. Okay, first you have to know what the expected move is in Netflix. Now we typically don't talk about things beforehand, but I did ask you what do you think the expected move in Netflix is and you said huge to me. Yeah, but we do have a number up there. The market maker move is $13.90. So about 14 bucks. Okay. So you have $14 up $14 down. Can you put a little arrow towards that if you get a moment. There you go. Okay, so you have $14 expected move. Now Netflix has a history of outperforming that move and it has and times that a lot of trouble from the last time. Yeah, it had a big move. So it does tend to move. But that's a tradable market. Yeah. So what has done the past me. I don't hold too much weight to. That could skew volatility today because if I know that and I hardly have a trade Netflix. Everybody else who does trade Netflix, especially the people who make the markets know that too. So volatility is really inflated. It's 192%. It's huge. Yeah. I mean, that means this 100% play volatility means the stock is going to double in a year or go to zero. 92 means it's going to go below zero by $100 or $300. Okay. I mean, I'm making a joke. It's only for the for the two days because of the earnings event. Typically, we like to go if we can in the best case scenario on a regular 45 day play, we like to go around that third that 5% which would be a full to standard deviation move. We like to go 5% both sides and collect a dollar. This is one of the few chances you can. Let's look at the 135 call. And the one and assuming the 87 put. How much buying power you think this is going to take. It'll take. Let's see. It takes about the same as any other strangle that you did in a stock. 20% of the 100 shares hit confirm and send one time you're looking at about a thousand dollars or so. 1100 bucks. All I'm saying is Netflix earnings large move. Here we are going. Well, to the up to the upside, you've got about $26 worth of room. Let's just call it $25. We'll we'll we'll round down on a 13 aspect to move twice as large. And to the downside 86. One 10 almost twice as much also. Yeah. Okay. Sounds interesting. Looks interesting. Yeah. Let me give you food for thought. Don't send that please because that is a live account. Perfect. And then delete the trade on the left. Let's go in a dough just to take a look at the tricks. I think it'll give you a little bit of a better end. We're kind of losing on time a little bit. Let's go to Netflix. So now let's say you didn't want to have risk to one side. And let's say you didn't want to have risk to the downside a trade that we could normally do is either a one by two call spread or buying a call spread and selling a further out of the money call to to pay for. We say finance buying that call spread. But it's really not financing that call spread. It just gives you no risk of the downside. Let me let me show you what I mean. And what I mean is we'll just go to a vertical spread. I'm going to buy the one twenty one one twenty four vertical spread. That's what thirty seven days we're going to go thank you. Perfect. We're going to buy an out of the money call spread something we never do one twenty one one twenty four. When I'm looking to do something like this. I'm kind of trying to fool myself. It's one of the trades that I hate. It's one of the trades that I hate to be right on. But pays me a lot when I am. Let me explain to you why. I'm afraid of the downside. I'm not afraid of the upside in Netflix. That's my opinion. You didn't have one but I'm giving you my opinion. Okay twenty one twenty four call spread. Allows me to to benefit from an upside move. Obviously it's trading for ninety cents and it's three dollars wide. I'm risking one to make two or more than two. More than two. Well to finance that because I don't want to pay for anything. Let's look at selling the one thirty one call. Now hold on a second before you put in that one thirty one call. Think about something for a minute. Where's my break even. Dole is going to give it to you toss is going to give it to you. But where's my break even at the one twenty four. No we keep running into this roadblock. I'm buying the twenty one twenty four call spread. My max profit is going to be at one twenty four above. Yeah. But if I sell the one thirty one call. Remember where my risk. It'll be above the thirty one call whatever if you can do this for a scratch then it'd be at that. That call almost. Let's just say for argument six I can sell the one thirty one call for eighty six cents. I do this whole thing for even. It cost me nothing. And long this twenty one twenty four call spread and I'm short the one thirty one call. Where's my break even. Above the third one thirty one call by three dollars the width of that spread. Which would make my break even one thirty four. I'm getting it for free. You're not getting it for free. You have risk. Your risk is going to be above one thirty four which is basically the same place that you had the risk on the. I'm not going to sell that we were doing a dollar or so off. I'm just so let's go look and sell the one thirty four call. Listen the computer does it all for you but if you could look at it yourself and no and then you can see it's right there at the one thirty four call if you would click on that arrow or that circle on the bottom there would tell you exactly where your risk is to the right. Right underneath the one thirty one call go up right there that little circle infinity sign. A little bit right there boom okay that'll just show you max loss. I know if you can see it on the screen there you go. Okay one thirty four twenty one because you can do it for twenty one saying credit. All right just to prove everything was that seventy four percent probability success. Strangle almost a ninety percent probability of success. What spread you want to do. They both take the same amount of money. What's the max profit going to be on this one. You tell me. You widen it back out from you a little bit it'll be you go on the one twenty three. It'd be three dollars and whatever credit you get. Let's forget about the credit for a moment. Three dollars would be the best case between one twenty four and one thirty one. What's the expected move let's just say the stock is one ten. The expected move is thirteen fourteen dollars that brings you up to around one twenty four. So if it this is what I meant when I first said this. If the stock does what I want it to do. Remember I'm fearful of the upside. If the stock does what this trade needs to happen then my assumption was right. I was afraid of the upside and I'm looking to get paid but I'm in between a small window one twenty four and one thirty one. Yeah which is about one and a half times the expected move. I'd rather go with the strangle. It's easier to get around wrapped in your head. You could make almost three times as much on this trade if you're right. Yeah. No risk to the downside. Okay. Strangle it is. Let's take a quick break here and just backtrack on what we looked at today. First of all your first earnings play. We looked at something Netflix. If I'm looking to make this trade for you or anybody else since your size is one you can only go as low as one. But I would look to make this trade as small as possible. This is your first earnings play because well we were doing a show. I would prefer your first earnings play to be an apple which is something very very liquid. We've been struggling to find trades you have a decent day going on in your account. You like to take the risk. We're going to go with a strangle in Netflix or this sunny side up trade. You'll decide after after shows over. Push it through to the follow page. Sounds good. That's right because you're on there. Everybody can see all your trades. Awesome. Even the S&P is down $6.25. They've rallied ever so slightly. Who comes up next? Got to night next. What do I normally say? Peace. This time I'm going to say good luck to you. Good luck. Peace.
Video: 036 - Volatility Skew 10 15 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Nicky were back. Where do I start back versus bad? How are you son? Where do we start? Where do we start is right? Let's start by looking at your account. Look they figured this all out already They have it up there down 477 dollars 535 dollars for the year. I lost your year today Yeah, yeah so close on you were so close Could have been somebody do you remember when I used to coach football and Going back to when you were about what were you maybe 1314 What's high school what your size wasn't that wasn't high school? That was like 567th eighth grade, right and you remember how like sometimes you know I Always told you before the practice that you know, I need you to cooperate with me because if you don't cooperate me and show me respect You know the whole team's not gonna show respect my most yeah, okay I remember like you would say something that wasn't like like particularly Offensive or really really bad or anything like that But you might give me a little bit of attitude like Shoggy shoulders take your helmet off when you weren't supposed to little stuff that other kids would do And I would kind of ride you a little bit about it. Yeah, cuz I had a day like today Okay, yeah Come on I really didn't do anything wrong I didn't I didn't and sell him any S.I. P's into the whole today But it just didn't go right do you know what I mean? So that's why I ran up to that's why you would run up to help more than everybody else that's correct All right, do you understand it now? Yeah, can you appreciate where I came from? Oh, yeah, oh yeah Did you phone call you want to take that? No share with the class it's a live chat. It's the live chatter right share with the class all right You're missing what you have a lot of positions on I mean because we have your whole page up there And doesn't fit on the screen anymore so you've been getting a little bit active you got some eight canceled orders Let's take a look that for a moment because I like that Looks like you were doing EWZ trade that you were trying to get filled on yeah, you're walking it down I don't think you've yeah, I really tried to work. Yeah, that's good. That's good And you got filled on a on a GLD trade. Yeah, I did a GLD Jade Blizzard basically a scratch right now Yeah, just fine. Okay, you did a GLD Jade lizard not really Jail is reverse jail is reverse jail is you sold a naked call yeah, and it puts spread so you're you're obviously bearish in G. L.D. Yeah, okay, all right good good Following Rachel like I get some brownie points, you know, I saw that tweet you too. You're so predictable I hope Let's take a look at something I want to show you I want to show you volatility skew Because we always talk about like an earnings play in Netflix, which we didn't happen to get on would have been a good trade for you But we didn't get it on was taking advantage of volatility contraction. This is volatility skew now When you have volatility skew to one side those spreads trade cheaper, and I think we have a great example of it in VXX so let's go to the trade page in VXX for moment VXX is a short term Futures short term volatility product It's right at $20 is gonna be perfect. It's $19.94 It's the closest we can get to $20. Let me show you what I mean by volatility skew You can look and see like like the 21 calls they're trading for a dollar 43 Keep a little arrow to them the 19 puts they're trading it around a dollar 24 So each one of them is a is one dollar out of the money and you can tell that there's a little bit of volatility To which side call side of the put side to the call side to the call side to the call is a trade with more volatility But let me show you how What we mean when we say when there's volatility skew the the spreads trade cheaper if I want to sell a call Let's say I was bearish on volatility and by thought volatility was gonna continue going lower I might look to sell a call spread we always say if you have volatility skew to the call side Really selling a call spread is not the best value for your dollar. Let me explain why let's go to the 21 20 call spread and sell it so right click on the okay, yeah, 2021 is fine Perfect 31 cents Okay, okay, so You would think since volatility when you buy one option and sell another kind of Negates itself and it cancels each other out you would think that the 1918 puts bread Well, how about this you would think that the 2019 puts bread would trade at 31 cents all about the same Just about the same right let's look at it the 2019 Put spread. Oh perfect. Thank you making that blast also so you can show you that's trading at 60 cents Okay, so so here all things being equal if this was xyz stock forget about vxx I understand it's volatility. It's just a great example Stocks trading $20 close enough to $20 if I wanted to sell the 2021 call spread Or sell the 2019 put spread you would think that the two of them would be pretty close within pennies of each other But it's almost double So there's skew to the upside which makes those out of the money calls Hold a lot of premium So it makes sense the front month calls that mean the closer call still has more premium than an out of the money Call like the 20 calls obviously going to have more premium than the 25 call But proportionately that 25 calls very very rich proportionally that 21 call is very very rich compared to the 19 put And why is that is it because the risk is the flight risk Volatility a product like this vxx which is the short-term volatility index We explode volatility explodes to the upside now you wouldn't know it on a on what was a 20 21 and a half dollar stock is down a dollar 46 it's down almost 7% today But when it goes up it goes up by 15% or 20% as opposed to down 7% I mean even the S&Ps are up almost $30 right now. It's it's a bullish day Yeah, but you can see here's a great example back in August how we went from Basically $16 you know to to $20 well 26 dollars in two days Now it's taking us some time to get back down here, but You already have a short portfolio. This would be another way of adding to the same short-delted you have You sold gold you you bought a TLT put spread which was the opposite of yeah, you know helping your helping your portfolio I think we could take advantage if you're if you're bullish on volatility over the next 36 days selling a put spread Not a naked put but a put spread gives you good bang for your buck much better than the call spread would So so if I was looking to trade vxx I wouldn't be able to I wouldn't want to do like a Jade lizard Yeah, because like like you did a Jade lizard in what was it? You're looking to do a jadeless in EWZ. Yeah Perfect perfect place to do it. You look at a do a Jade lizard in in SPY totally understandable everything's like yeah a Jade lizard in vxx You want to avoid the calls because of the big move up So it's well you want to avoid the calls because a big move up and forget and forget about that just on just on a use of capital here Let me explain here to delete that for just a quick second leave as blast all let's go a striker two out of the mind like we always go to the the 30 Probability right so let's go to the 22 23 call spread So now we're two dollars out of the money It's 19 cents Let's go let's go two dollars out of the money to the downside. So let's look at the 1817 That's okay great. It's 37 cents Like if I was if I was bearish on on vxx I can't sell a call spread. Yeah It's just not much there and I'm not gonna do a Jade lizard where I'm gonna you know sell a two dollar wide call spread Or a one dollar wide call spread and collect 19 cents. Yeah, I want to sell a call spread right can collect around 30 35 cents And that's right at the money All right, let's look at a put spread him in vxx then So what do you want to do Um, I mean let's do that at the money right and take premium. Okay, so let's you want to look at the 19 will go one strike out of the money Okay, do you want to do the 19 like hit confirm send one time? What's it only gonna take about 400 bucks? 700 bucks, okay delete that for a moment All right, so it takes 700 dollars in buying power Um, if we do like the 1914 That would be 500 dollars worth of buying power you'd save 200 dollars if you do the 19 15 That would only be 400 dollars you'd be saving 300 you'd be saving Yeah, almost half about 40 30 some are percent Okay, I think that's I think that's what you do cool, okay, let's go out that okay good Let's put it in at a dollar 18 and see what happens Sound good to you cool, okay great using 285 dollars worth of buying power Yeah, I actually didn't include the credit so instead of using 700 dollars you're only using 285 so you're using well over 50 percent almost 60 percent Pretty good. Yeah, okay, cool. Let's go back to your account and take a look at one other thing Which is well you know what you can stay right here. Just go to Baba I tweeted that out today is that Yeah, you said forget about the book you made or something. This is your name is not nightmare. Okay, what's the high in Baba today? Uh, I think we're at it. No, it's right down the right hand side 72 44 70 30 30 cents higher. Okay You want to make a pact? Sure. You want to be mechanical? Yeah, you want to throw in the towel when we have a chance That's one of the towel, but lose some more of your delta risk This stock trades over 72 50 you sell the 72 and a half 67 and a half puts bread and just I mean that all that's your like like People always say to me like When do you decide like you have 60 short delta's in Baba? That's not a lot of delta But it's certainly a lot of delta when a stock moves 5% a day like 10 delta's too much. Yeah, 10 short delta You got 60 short delta do I roll up to the 70 now and then roll up to the 72 and a half we just made a pact didn't we? All right, I'm asking you to say when it goes to 72 and a half if it happens today or it happens tomorrow What happens the next day you sell the 72 and a half 67 puts bread I wish we had a towel here I wish I had a healthy to run up. Yeah All right, let's take a quick break here and just backtrack and and and go over what we talked about today and really Did we go over your account? Not really did we did we kind of say hey? You know days like today happen. Yeah, they really do happen. Do you look at yesterday and say you know Well, I could have done so much more. I don't think so like I don't you know You can't have like the kind of regrets, but what do you do you do exactly what you did? You've looked at two new trades to put on stay mechanical keeping everything right No, we had a really nice discussion on volatility skew And I and I think you could understand I think you can understand now Well, let me cue let me quiz you real quick then if if if there's if there's skew to the upside to call spreads trade cheap or expensive Cheap. Oh god. Yeah, 50 50 shot it. I love it good work I'm gonna make him run up to help who comes up next. Yeah, Tim night next. What do I normally say peace peace
Video: 037 - Relationship Of Delta And Vega 10 19 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you were back when I stopped that versus bat. How are you son? Good happy Monday happy Monday look fresh It's a day today very proud of you very proud of you You're good weekend. I had a great weekend. How'd your count to this weekend? It was better today as always a later earlier in the day. Yeah earlier in the day as always a late Market rally make sure a count look a little bit worse. So $24 you're up around a hundred But that doesn't make a difference right? Okay, we got a mixed bag of tricks today. You may as a piece down 350 NASDAQ up 9 You've got a bearish portfolio. Do you want to bet away your portfolio? Take a look at it? Mm-hmm. Okay One almost one it'll call it 1.8 all right, so we did a great market measure today at nine o'clock Which you should probably go back in watching everybody who's watching the show should go and look if you have a portfolio Adult with Vega versus how much delta you should have and if your Vega in your cases around Let's just call it a hundred and fifty. We'll just round up. You should have half as much Short delta. So you should have 75 short delta. So it should be like a two-to-one ratio That's what we've actually pulled up my account while you were doing it to show everybody in the morning that those people that might not be watching me Just how horrible that's going No, I'm just kidding. I use it because it's a live account. It's a real account We don't usually show all our accounts. We show yours all the time So I just want to give it an example of course I also wanted to make a good point and Tom actually said a lot more than I did Yeah, it should be around 75 short delta's but at market extremes You know you have to take everything with you have to take everything with a little bit of liberty You should know what you should have on and you should know what the mechanical thing to do is But you also have to put your own market assumption there too if you choose So we've got a little bit of a short delta in your report overall portfolio. All right, so we're looking for long delta We've gone through it I don't want to I don't want to take more of the show's time to go through it But a lot of stocks don't have a lot of high implied volatility right now But as luck would have it Earning season is upon us and there is a stock that's fairly liquid. It's a higher price stock Let's look at a chart of IBM for a moment now. We've done correlation studies. We've done Vega studies, which you just did right now IBM has a pretty high Beta towards the rest of the market Meaning if IBM goes up typically the market will go up to so if market IBM goes down typically the market will go down to IBM has not been cooperating over the last Month or two or three with the with the overall market now the beta the beta wait for IBM I should have had this for you is about a 70 So a one would be a one-to-one relationship with the market meaning 1.00 70 70% of the time it goes up The high correlation high correlation. Okay, so if we wanted to get some long delta in something that high had A relatively high to itself Ivy rank we could consider doing something in IBM now It fits my criteria because it's been getting beaten up I like to do I like to buy low sell high the way I can buy low and sell high is if I buy something that's already low and Sell something that's already high We can do something in IBM if you wanted to for an earnings play want to take a look at it? Oh, yeah Okay, let's go into IBM. Let's go to the trade page for a quick second And I'm gonna show you a little bit of a trick on how you can figure out what your Beta-weighted delta's will be before you even make the trade on using the analyzed tab and toss We're gonna have to open up a couple more strikes And after you put up this first trade we can change it to blast all so that we can see a couple of them Okay, so the simplest thing to do would be something like Change October to November you can close up all the strikes for a minute why we're gonna go to November all right So Five dollar expected move with four days to go so I've got to take that was about five five dollars and seventy five cents With four days to go kind of discount that a little bit So since about a four dollar expected move maybe a little bit more than a four dollar expected move today and the rest over the Remaining days of the week October is gonna be basically, you know 50 50 shot November is gonna be a 50 50 shot to but maybe there's a little bit more of a volatility play in their meaning We can extend a little bit of duration volatility in November looks like it's trading for around 26% I might think that that would go down to about 22 or 23 percent So you've got a couple of percentage points involved plus we have time. I think when you're Do you expect that after earnings to go like so like those the longer term volatility will Decrease after the earnings about no the long term volatility will probably stay pretty pretty much about what it is 23% right now we'll go to 22 the front month is definitely and by front month I don't mean the ones with four days but ones with 11 18 days those are gonna go down 78% you're in November they're probably gonna go down maybe two or three percent not a lot But all of your positions are in November so why do a binary event? I don't care that much about I damn Why do a binary event just to earnings? Let's take a damage of earnings to maybe get some long delta If I be in this disappoints and I be I'm goes lower Maybe the rest of the market will go lower too. You've got a diamond position that would benefit from that. Yeah, okay Let's go in November the easiest thing to do is just to be a sell a naked put let's go a little bit further out if we could We're gonna like a one standard deviation or close to it The one thirty six put we could go to the one thirty five put I like to get at least a dollar The one thirty six put is close to a 15% probability being out of mind which is just about a standard deviation So we could sell a one thirty six put just load that up for me and then change it from single to blast all Okay, we can do a Little bit of a long-ish delta strangle meaning maybe we sell a Closer put and a further away call so let's look at something like doing the Let's go right right we are yeah one forty fine. We can sell the one forty put and And then go down a little bit further and we can do something like selling like the one sixty call if you wanted to So we sold a put that's almost twice as close on a probability of expiring in the money That's around two dollars and eighteen cents. We could also do something like you know even even more like a one 41 put one fifty seven and a half call So So on that is wide All I've tried to do is just give you different things like the first one Totally just long delta second one well more of a selling premium plus long delta the third one selling a lot more premium with almost around the same amount of delta now Which one you choose is almost irrelevant? It's because the market is going to Dictate whether they're profitable or not the mechanics of setting it up Hey, I've got a bearish portfolio. Hey, I'm looking for long delta I have money on the side all these strategies and take anywhere between fifteen and Two thousand dollars in buying power, which is about what we've used But let's take a look at that one thirty six put on the analyze tab for a moment Just let me just show you a little bit of a trick and then you can go back after we're done with the show and decide which one you want to do Obviously it comes through Joe you'll show everything that we do there But let's just take a look at it from the analyze tab and Open up see where says the price slices open on the left there. Okay, so it's separate there for a moment This is this is showing you so just circle 15 delta's if you could so it's giving you 15 delta's in 15 long delta's in IBM 14.86 if you wanted to take thank you If you wanted to take a look at what this naked put would be can we move it up just a little bit so people can see it That's fine for now change Change single to Beta-weighted portfolio portfolio beta-weighted and then whatever you want to beta-weight it to let's put an SPY And you got to make sure that there's that's the only one we're looking at right? Okay, I'm open up the slices one more time for me And I you that's what I mean you got Say I click off show all Oh, is that the beta-weighted right there? Okay, so there's a beta-weight on the right hand side if you wanted to Get rid of everything that you had in there because it gave us the slices gave us wrong instead of where it says show all you would just go to Just simulated but there might be other old ones in there so you can go to hide positions Let's see check the slices see if it comes up there. They must be more. Oh No, there it is so they got seven dollar seven 69 okay, so it took all your portfolio in there. That's why it showed it a little bit different So you're not picking up like a lot of long delta you know what I'm saying like we're not we're not changing a hundred and 80 short delta's into 80 short delta's by son is put you're only changing by seven or eight delta's But you know listen as your portfolio gets bigger and your trading career gets more mature You know 10 contracts is 70 delta's, you know, I mean as as things go on it gets it gets big quickly All right, so those are I don't have a lot to give you here with your overall portfolio. Do you have dough set up in his? Okay, step right there. I don't know go back to which other okay So you've got a you hold portfolio has around a 46% probability of success Let's just call it 50 50 you've got a lot of good premium in there 2300 which we have not gotten paid on yet Yeah, and you have like we said about a hundred and eighty short delta You're right at that apex of when you know if the market goes considerably higher from here You're gonna start losing money one to one with the market move if the market starts going a little bit lower We're actually gonna capture that move one to one so Getting along here would would would help me Getting some long delta would help you overall, but you can't and I thought you can't how do you switch the cards? Like how do you get neutral from here? So we're at a market extreme you for this all the way up you're down around 600 bucks you were down around 4,000 How do you take your portfolio from here and what do you do? Do you just go and buy a put spread? Excuse me go buy a call spread an SPY 25 times Like you're not gonna do that against against a one well you have you know How many different positions let's just say you have 15 different positions? Well, do you go in and buy 25 contracts or 10 contracts of a $3 wide spread? Not when I'm doing one one lots exactly So you maybe I go in and get you know one or two or three long positions I mean right like you don't do what one or two or three long positions would you like to find? Yeah, I mean right now it's hard to find but oh Okay, so let's say you could find one you could find one and IBM. Yeah, that one put gave you eight delta's Do you make it a ten dollar wide spread and do 15 of them to get you know 7,8,9,100 long delta's no you don't you just gotta keep in the capital and Eventually you hope that the market is cyclical and comes around Tough situation. Yeah, I click you've been there before only a Let's just go over what we talked a little bit about here today I'm really what we did was we looked at IBM earnings We looked at IBM earnings to use them for a long delta to get some long delta in your overall portfolio We certainly explained how it's not gonna change your delta's by that much. It is a binary event and really is relied upon that move in IBM We looked at the analyzed tab on how you could Beta-weight your overall portfolio just that one position before you even place it to see how much delta you're gonna get from it I know in a smaller account like yours. It doesn't make a large difference But in a but a bigger account it will make a much bigger difference in it All you guys do is hang in there. You okay? I'm trying I'm trying to hang in there comes up next. Got you night next peace
Video: 038 - Should I Close One Side Of An Iron Condor 10 20 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm doing very well. Thank you for those who are tuning in for the first time. This is my son, Nick Batista. I'm Tony Batista. Donuts the first bat. You were the second bat. First born. First born son. Let's take a look at your accounts. See what's going on there. Is that my gold fell? No. Good try though. Well, Penny off. It's close. You are coming up. I'll open up your working orders. You're trying to buy it for $1.60 or something? $1.60. You're right there at mid price. You get a little bit of a down-tick in gold. You'll probably get filled. So that a $2.20. $2.26. You'll be making about 30% in five days. Good trade. You're using a lot of buying power. $2,200. That's one of the reasons why we talked about. You were selling it for a lot. We were selling a naked call and a put spread. We had a high credit. We looked to run like a thief in the knife. Just trying to book a profit. You look at your overall account. Close up the working orders for a moment. You're up about $76 on your overall account down $560. So far for the last two months or so that you've been trading. Been a struggle the whole time. We had an IBM earnings play from yesterday. We can open that up if you don't mind. Well, we sold it. You can leave it right there. That's fine. We can open up the bottom IBM trade. You just sold, sorry about that. You just sold a naked put. The $136 puts for around $1.30. That's okay. Right around $1.30. On the opening, our research shows if it's going the wrong direction, you want it to go higher and went lower. The prudent thing to do, at least from our research, is to sell the opposite side immediately on the opening. As long as you do things consistently all the time. Does it cause any buying power? Does anybody buying power? Correct. Usually under hedge a little bit. You sold the call for around $1.30. You put with probably trading right around here about $1.70, $1.90 at the time. We sold it volatility contracts a little bit. You're down about $30.27 total on IBM. $6.5 expected move when we put on the trade later on volatility expand a little bit more. Went up to around $7 and change. It's actually moved to $8 and change. You're down about 27 bucks. That's just the beauty of going into November. You can do a little bit more time to be right. You know, kind of manage a trade. Much much more of a volatility longer term play than the 5050 shot basically of an earnings play. So we might look at doing something there in Yahoo for earnings to today. Okay. Right. I don't know how we can do this. Let's go to the trade page and I'm going to look at IWM. We don't have to do it. I'll just talk about it when you while you're doing this. You have a beta way to delta of around $165, $170 short delta in your account. Keeps growing as days go by and market doesn't sell off. Change that the price to taste to trade. Thank you so much. And you're going to have to open up a bunch of strikes. Why don't you go to 80? We're going to look at the calls from it. The 111 15 call spread. All right. So you talk to me and said, hey, I'm short this 111 15 call spread. Why don't we buy that back and keep the short put spread that we have on now. Let's take a look at something. Let's let's simulate that simulate. Let's just look at let's let's look at buying the 111 15 call spread. See where that's trading. It looks like it's trading for about three bucks. 285 is what I was looking at or 280 ish. Okay. So Marcus rallyed a little bit. So it's $2 and this is called $2.90. Let's assume that you're right and IWM at expiration is above 115. What did you save yourself by buying this a $2.90? How much money do you save? $60. A dollar 10, right? It's a $4 wide spread. 111 15. Let me take my shoes for a minute. 111 12 and 13. If you pay $2.90, you save yourself $110. Okay. Let me show you with no chance of maybe you're wrong. Maybe we go back down to 111 12 or 113 or who knows what's going to happen next 31 days. So let me give you a different way of looking at almost the same thing but selling premium. Let's take a look at buying back the 103 109 put spread. That was the other half of this spread, right? No. The other half was the 111 109. The other half was the 111. This is an iron fly. I don't know almost like the skewed skewed iron condor. We have this put spread on part of another spread the 103 96, right? Yes. Let's look at buying the 103 96 put spread back. We did a dynamic iron condor. We sold the call and put it the same probability of being in the money at 20%. Then we bought the wings that were 10% out of the money. So the call spread was only like $5 wide and the put spread was like $7. That makes sense because it's 103 96. So that's a 14 cent spread. Almost seems silly to have it on. Yeah. Okay. So why do why hold down the control key? Let's now forget about like you told me that that spread was originally you said the 114 114 19. Is that the one? It doesn't the 111 15 11 was the call spread we were talking about. Right right now I got that but the other half of this. Oh, yes. The 114 119 119. So we can go up on this particular spread to the 114. Up to one. Let's not. Let's go to the 111 and let me just work with me for just a second. Let's sell one of the 111 puts. And let's make that you can just hold down the key if you want to. Let's buy back another one of the 103 puts. So now we're rolling up that spread from the 103 96 up to the 111 103. $7 versus $8. So we're using about another dollar worth of buying power not a lot considering how much buying power we use on other trades in your account. But you're collecting around 60 cents. Now earlier it was trading for around 70 cents but markets move at 62 cents. Okay. So let's compare the two. You had one where you would be saving yourself if you were right that I WMS over 115 at expiration. Not right that your assumption is right and you're trying to save yourself some money. You save yourself $110 with no chance of making any profit. You'd be like locking in the laws. Here we can roll up not take really any more risk to the downside. It's $1 more and risk. It's $8 versus $7. So what you're bringing in 60 bucks. So you're giving up $50 for the chance over the next 32 days. All things being equal that the stock goes below 114 111 111 110 wherever. To me with 31 days to go with a week to go. You want to say you have a bullish stance or you know you don't think you can get the retracement that you need. Okay. I understand. Let's close it and move on with 30 some of days to go. I think you got to take the shot. Does that does it make sense to you? Yeah, I mean I understand. I think that makes sense. I mean you're getting just about the same amount of delta. As if I was taking off the call spread. I mean that was that was the other thought that I had. So let's change return on capital to delta. It's a great question because we don't have to get to. Yeah, well you can do it later if you want to. Okay, so close that up for just a moment and let's go to the call. We can look at the puts side. That's fine. The 111 103 puts were buying the 103 put. It has a delta of five. And the 111 that you'd be selling has a delta of 23. So you're looking at around 18 positive delta. Right. Five minutes 23 18. Okay. Let's look at the call spread. The 111 call has a 77 delta. And the one which one we bind back. Nicky the one 15. Yeah, has a 55 delta. So you're looking at 21 delta. I mean it's 18 versus 21. You want to argue that the put spread you're buying back. It probably has two or three delta. Okay, so we're saying it's 15 versus 21 delta. Basically the same. Yeah. Okay. I think you got to do the put spread too. I kind of reluctantly will go with my with let's go in the three 63 cents and you can think about it and decide what you want to do later on. Okay. Okay, hit confirm and send and send. All right, we've got about three minutes. Do you want to look at a Yahoo earnings play? Yeah. Okay. Um because we have a position in there right now. We do let's go to Yahoo. Actually a bigger one than we normally wanted. Right. I think it's two contracts in Yahoo. No, just one or just one. We took the one off. Oh, that's good. Okay. Well, that makes it a little bit easier. All right. So you short the 30 put and you're short the 31 call. Obviously short delta in the position. Yahoo. Looks like it has around a $1 expected move. Let's close up November for a quick second just to look at the difference between. The front and back months to see what volatility will contract similar to what happened in IBM. It looks like volatility 69% you got 47 and know. But look at January, April and January of next year you looking at around 40%. So Yahoo's volatility in my eyes can go from 47 in November because that's where I want to stay with you and have a little bit more time, a little bit more duration to about 40 to 42%. So you get about a five to seven point volatility drop, which is significant. Okay. Okay. Okay. So let's open up November options. And since you already have short delta in there, maybe we skew it a little bit to the long side. So right now, where do you want Yahoo to land between 30 and 31. Perfect. This would be my max. So let's keep let's keep that. Let's sell the 31 put, which at expiration, you still would want to stock down there. And it has around a 29 delta something like that, right. And let's take a look at selling the 37 calls. And the 37 calls have around a 20 delta. So you're skewing it a little bit longer by about nine or 10 delta. Okay. It's trading for a dollar 38. That's actually contracted a lot because it was trading up around a buck 40 or so mid price earlier. So Marcus tightened up a little bit straight 138. That's the spread out. It was especially if you get filled in gold, which would be awesome because you're freeing up $2,000. This will be using around $1,000. Okay. You want to do that? Yeah, it's a little bit of long delta and that a lot still putting on risk. Yeah. Okay. Go in at one something long going at one 38 and see what happens. All right. In the worst case, worst comes to worst, you can always move the gold spread up a penny or two and be filled on that. Yeah. All right. Cool. Yeah. You got things going. You like the action. I like the action. I want to give you a look at CSX for a trade. What was the other stock you were looking at? Pepsi. Pepsi. I.B. was another one for the day. I.B. was like last week. And it was another one this morning. You mentioned Tesla. You want to catch falling knife and Tesla. What's another one you wanted to do? I don't know. I want to stay in the game 50 50 shots are not how you become successful. It's just a 50 50 shot. Yeah. So these debit spreads are very, very not tricky. They don't breed success. I don't I'm not looking to get rich. But I'm thinking that you know, I'm so short. I figure I get a couple of these long positions that you see what that came first. I'll do the thing. Let's take a quick break here for a moment and talk about what we discussed on the show. We went over IBM. The mechanical thing to do when an earnings trades going against you. It's actually saved your butt today. You would have been down almost a hundred bucks. You're down 30 bucks on a trade like totally manageable. A hundred bucks would have been manageable too. But at least now you have a volatility contraction play on which is much better than the directional play. We did a Yahoo trade and we kind of dissect what would be better. And there's no better or worse. I guess it's it's it's good and better way of getting long dealt is in I WM. It's all good. Great job out of you today. Good job out of you. Who comes up next? Tonight next. Peace. You're monkey.
Video: 039 - Should I Roll Only One Side Of An Iron Condor 10 29 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm not going to be a fan of this. Nicky, where do I start? That versus bat? How are you son? I have an decent day. I have an decent day. I'm tiny little drawback in the market overall. I mean, S&P is down $4 down, $45, Russell down 14. That's probably the biggest mover. Down 1 and a quarter percent where everything else is down basically a quarter percent. So you're right. The Russell is really the only thing that's gone down nicely today. Everything else is kind of meandering around that. Let's take a look at your account real quick. It's a little deceiving because you're up about $230 in your account today. But you took a good sizable hit the last couple of days. Well, a couple of days for sure. Last 45 minutes though, you look like you took about another, you were down about $160 and you took another $200 and something, $1,000 loss. So you're getting back almost what you lost, yes, they probably not a hundred bucks or so. But you've got a lot of, you've got a decent theta decay for the amount of volatility that's in the market. But you really have a lot of delta. Let's beta weight your position. I'm going to compare it to SPY. You'll notice down at the bottom there if he has his circle tool work in there. You'll show you a short 205 SPY delta. Do you know how many, do you know how many delta are in one E-mini S&P? How many SPY delta? 500. Because one Emini S&P equals 500 shares of SPY. So when the Emini S&Ps are down $4 or $5, your portfolio right now is mirroring almost half of one Emini S&P future. So tomorrow morning if you wake up, you see the Emini S&P futures are down 15 handles or 15 points. You'll know that you're going to have a pretty good day. Like the amount of money that a seven or ten point Emini S&P move will make. All right. And the opposite direction. That's true. And that's true. And that's true. That's true. So, yes, today. All right. So let's see what we can do. You've got, can we go up to the top just a little bit? You've got Boba, which is a real problem child for us. We've been trying it. We've been converted by $21 here. We're looking to take a seven or $800 loss. All we want the stock to do is stay in between our short strikes. It was down around $1.50 or $60 today. I'm looking like it was going to do that, you know, at least help us along our way. It hasn't happened. It's really a problem child. And I'm looking at your P&L year to date. Your next one is the diamonds. Let's go look at the diamonds. Now the diamonds had the highest implied volatility early on in this move. And that's why we went to the diamonds. So it makes sense that your biggest loss after this, what, 20 handle run. It's just in the diamond. I mean, it's just been a big move from top to bottom over the last month or less. Okay. So now you've got a put spread. You basically short a at the money strangle, the, excuse me, straddle, the 165. And you long the wings really not to do anything but to find the risk and use a little bit of less buying power. It's, it's a straddle because all those wings are doing really hard. So you have two plays here. You can roll up in the same month, meaning you can roll up the 65 put and go inverted, locking in some losses. Or you can take those November puts and move them to December, same strikes. If you roll up, you'll probably reduce your delta by about half. If you roll from November to December, you'll probably reduce your delta by about 10 or 12%. Market hasn't, we like to, we like to kind of roll when the mark, we say roll into strength. And for strength for this position, would mean when the market's going lower. Now the market's not going lower by any means, they just because the EMS piece are down five dollars. Right now, you're 200 short delta, this is a lot of delta for you. Are we going to do anything with the call side? I mean, well, that depends. If you decide to, if you decide to move from November to December, I would say we do nothing with the call side and let me tell you what my thinking is. So we move from November to December, and let's say we pick up 60, 70 or 80 cents on the roll price. So we have 80, 60, 70, 80 cents worth of, probably less than 80, 50, 60 or 70 cents worth of premium that we collected in, not a lot. But it's mechanical. It keeps the, you know, you're proactive. Let's think what'll happen. You'll have a lot of alpha in this front month, November, meaning it's still going to move one to one. There's 165 calls basically have a delta of 100. I know the delta says 70 there, which is 100 percent correct. But when you look at the 20, the 165 puts, they're only trading 26 cents. You've got an option that's $12.37 and you've got an option that's 26 cents. Yeah. There's no way that that 20, that 165 put is going to move one third of as much as that 165 calls. Does that make sense? Not going to move as much at all. It's not even going to move about one third. It's not going to move at all. It's my point. So I'm looking at those 165 calls as 100 percent delta. Look at the net change. And I know it's hard to look at the net change on and deep in the money option because sometimes the market, the markets are wide in them. But look at the 165 call. It's down 45 cents. The diamonds are down 55 cents. It's moving one to one is all I'm trying to say. So you're basically short 100 shares of diamonds. So that's big, that's big, big deltas. Real deltas is what we call an alpha, whatever you want to call it. That's a real delta. That put delta is really kind of a, it's a nothing delta. It's making up 25 deltas, but it's, I call them like fake deltas. Do you know what I'm saying? Like if I was short for put spreads, if one put spread had a delta of 25 and I was short four of those put spreads, the 143, 165 and it gave me a delta of 25, I would have 100 long deltas. That's not the same 100 long deltas as being short one of those 165 calls, 165, 182 call spread. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? It's not going to move. It's not going to move at all. Yeah, because the calls are so deep in the money that they're basically stock right now. So it's real delta versus kind of fake delta. So when I look at that, you're really shorter than you think you are. My suggestion to you on this whole trade, just to keep the dream alive, because in hindsight, we should have rolled this and we did roll up the puts. I mean, maybe not as aggressively in hindsight as we could have. Maybe we should have gone inverted much more aggressively. But did you know what the market was going to do? I mean, I don't know what the market was going to do. Did you think the market was going to be up 20 straight days? Basically, I didn't think it was going to be up 20 straight days. This is a move we haven't seen in quite some time. Seems like we say that just about every three months. Yeah. We haven't seen it quite some time. Typically around three months. All right, so let's take the November put spread and roll it to December. So basically what you're doing is you're going to, you can look at it as, I'm short stock and I'm short out of the money put spread. Yeah. I mean, I would have to go really, really deep inverted. You sure would. I mean, you sure would. I couldn't roll it up to like say the 70 mark. I'd have to go to like the 75. So what would our game plan be? Let's say we roll from November to December. The market goes down. That's a high class problem for us. Okay, because that December put spread is going to move. It's going to move more than the November one, but not that much. The November calls are really going to hold. We really have a lot of weight to them. So let's say the market goes out direction. Well, we just take off the call spread and sell another call spread in December. We'll be down a lot less money than we are now. Okay. If the stock goes higher, well, we say ourselves, okay, at least we were active. Now we can take that November spread and change the strikes to December to give us less directional risk. Okay. Okay. So try to buy ourselves some time. Let's close up the diamonds for a quick second. I'm so sorry. And let's look at SPY because you have basically the same thing in SPY. I want to do the same thing in SPY. You have that 201 call, although it shows an 80 delta, you got the same type of same exact thing. So let's move the SPY one, same way that we're moving the diamonds one. Which one you want to do first? Diamonds or SPY? Let's go at the diamonds. Okay, let's go to the trade page in DIA. Both of these spreads are going to be trading for around the same price because they're essentially the same position. You're going to have to open up a lot of strikes because there's half dollar wide strikes and they're oh, 60 won't be enough. When I say a lot, I mean a lot. Okay. You made it by 100. Let's buy back the 165 put. Selling out the 143 put. You went faster. The 143 put have a bit at must of because it said 1 cent. So let's take a look. It has to have three. So this is a great lesson for everybody. If it said 0, 4, then you probably can't do this spread. Meaning the computer can't sell something at 0. So it's not going to be able to pick that up. You have to have a bid for something if you're going to sell it. If this didn't have a bid for something, what I would do is I would just buy the 165 put and I would leave the 143 put. What am I risking? I'm not risking anything. I can only go to 0 and it's basically already there. Yeah. Makes sense? Just buy the 165, 143 and let's sell the same exact strike. 165, 143. 165. And that's okay. You didn't hold down the control key. It's got a rookie. First day was no hands. So let's sell the 165, 143. Perfect. 86 cents. And let's sell out. 143 put and let's buy back the November 165 put. Okay, 63 cents. I originally said 60, 70 or 80 cents and I kind of revised it to around 50, 60 or 70 cents and it's 63 cents. Let's go in at mid price of 63 cents and you can always move it around. Yeah, we've had a tough time getting filled in diamonds anyway. Yeah, markets are a little bit wider in there. These are kind of cheap puts, by cheap puts, but I mean low price puts, but you're not going to have to move them that much. He can firm and send and send. If you get a little bit of a rally, obviously you won't be able to get filled. If you get a little bit of a downturn, you'll be able to get filled. Let's go and SPY and take a look at that and we'll do the same exact thing if we can do it in about 30 seconds. We'll have them both in and then you can cancel and replace it. In SPY, we're going to buy back the 193 and sell out the 178 put spread. Yeah, you're going to need a couple more strikes. Perfect and that has a bid. Okay, and then we're going to sell out the December 193 put. That's a lot easier to say these things out than just to go on the platform and do it. Sell the 193 put and buy back by a 178 put. Perfect. 59 sets. I told you they were going to be trading around the same price. Let's just go in a 59 cents. Hit confirm and send and send. You can always cancel and replace it later on. Cool. Yeah. All right. So we're going to break in the action just to discuss what we talked today. Today we looked at, I don't know, what would you call it? Why roll half of a position? I mean, typically we want to roll the whole position. Are we kidding ourselves? I don't know. Maybe are we staying mechanical and active and making good mechanics? Yeah, we are. Makes sense? Yeah. All right, good. We should make that makes sense game again. We can get drunk next time. Yeah. All right. Every time we say make sense, I say make sense. Hey, you're going to be on the show Tom Sazoff is leaving. I'm Friday going to dress up. Yeah, I got a little something planned. Go to something planned? Yeah. Good for Halloween. Perfect. We'll dress up on Friday. We'll see what it looks like. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 040 - Getting Long Delta With Ratio Spreads 10 30 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Oh SCREAMING TIME CAN CH sleep bac!! You got dat!! Cats!! Told her garbage baaat?? TOTOarbige So a hundred million percent garbage Nicky, when do I start we're back that versus back How are you son? Oh, I'm doing well doing well. It's all day in the market for me actually The size day in the market it is my friend. Yes, it is hold on one second. Have I ever shown you these? These are my glasses. They're broken They're broken. Do you know how many I have at Costco? I have so many of them So we're gonna take a look at the market today. Why don't we take a look at your account for a moment? So let's see we have your filled orders. Well, you don't have any you're working something. Let's see you're working orders You're working something in Netflix. It looks like that's idiotic. I'm sorry. That's yum yum You're working so you're working a closing order of 50% all kidding aside. Happy Halloween to everyone Where do I start bat versus bat Nicky? How are you my friend? Good doing well. Let's see how your account is doing today We actually have a down day you're up about 170 bucks still down 14 hundred bucks for the day your Boba position is not doing you well It's a tough one. I gotta tell you something Scary looking at you like that. I know right? It's kind of nice out there. Is it I forgot to do one thing Here we go. There we go Much better much better. So what are we gonna take a look at in your account today? So today's the first day that we've had a little bit of relief in the market And I can't even consider us making the lows right now down $6.75 on the e-mini S&P's any type of Relief in the market. I mean really what we're having here is something we've been waiting for for quite some time And this is only the tip of the iceberg you got oil working for you You still have a beta-weight position. Let's take a look at that. Let's beta-weight your positions To SPY you're still short 200 short deltas in your account You only have a 117 short Vega. So those you're gonna keep that short delta moving now We'd like to see actually in a in a mid-range market or market with little directional opinion We'd like to see the opposite of that we'd like to see you short if you were short 200 Vega We don't need to be short 100 $100 you have a little bit more So maybe we could pick up some long delta and something that we've played before can we go to a chart of Twitter please? So if Twitter hasn't changed it doesn't look like it has it's down about 60 cents 2% on the overall stock just had earnings volatility still relatively high You can see the last time it had earnings volatility crept down to around the 25% rank IV rank and now it's still up around the 45 percent I'm looking to get long something, but I'm not looking to get long I'm not looking to change your delta by that much in SPY So I was thinking about either broken wing butterfly Or a ratio spread now if I want to get long something Which means I I don't want to have risk to the upside that's the direction I think the stock is gonna go What kind of butterfly should I be doing broken wing butterfly or ratio spread a call or a put? it'll be a A put exactly Pretty much everything we do is the opposite of what Traditional trading would be like if somebody's bullish they're usually gonna look at a call spread Somebody's bearish they're gonna look at a put spread we look at doing the opposite what I want to do is I want to have my exposure To the downside because I think the stock is going higher. Let's go to toss and just look at a vertical One by two spread or a broken wing butterfly now. We're not gonna do it in October obviously with with no days or seven days in November 21 days in November for an open it's too short 49 45 is our sweet spot We're right there, right? So let's open up December Please what's your day range please change that the old mark to take the trade? I'm sorry like plus or minus 10 days So like if you know to go to the front one or the back one What do you know? I hate putting things in like in like a in like a box I mean, I know it depends on a lot of other factors, but about 25 days in the front month 20 to 25 days is kind of The low that's it. Okay. That's it because think about it 20 days is gonna give us about 48 in the back. I'm close to 45 in December now volatility is extremely low and I'm looking to sell premium Well, I might stay in the in the front month if volatility is extremely high Then I can do the front month or the back month. I mean our research shows that when volatility is high Sometimes going a little bit longer in duration is actually beneficial for you. Okay. Okay. All right if I'm gonna do a one by two put spread and I want to do it neutral To bullish I have to buy a put that's in the money and sell two puts that are out of the money So I'm gonna look at the 30 1 by 2 So I'm gonna buy 130 put And sell to 28 puts are so you get a 55 cent credit so before I click confirm and send and you can The computer will tell you everything that's there if the stock goes anywhere higher Then over 20 anywhere higher than where it is today you make how much if you sold us a 55 cents 55 cents okay, so on a Strangle that we would put on we're collecting a dollar. We're looking to manage it a buck here. You're only making about half of that So how can I manage this at 50% Um if volatility decreases Yeah, that I mean that'll help you but what would be like like what would okay? So let me answer it Where would we want the stock? I set you up to fail How much can I make on this spread? You can make the width of the strikes which is two dollars plus the 55 Sense so you can make 255 It must be your thinking cap You got you got that right that's perfect good for you and the braille that's doing it keeps it warm up there It must you're exactly right you can you can make two dollars and 55 cents So a buck 25 would be 50% And I almost think that that's unreasonable Meaning like it's that's not gonna happen until the stock is trading Right where it is today and there's maybe a weak left to expiration So if I were to put this on somewhere around 50 55 cents I'd be looking to manage this winner anything over 50 cents Do you know what the you know what's So where's so where's my risk to the downside what's my break even on the downside Approximately forget about the credit you received um The well, I mean you'll start to lose some after when you go below 28 but the break even is probably 28 Think about 27 26 26 plus the 50 cents credit you two dollars and 50 cents because you can you'll make the 30 28 put spread You'll make two dollars on And then you're short a 28 put that one put loses two dollars is down to 26 plus the 50 cents credit you get So you're looking around 25 and a half let's took let's look at the probability in December of getting down to 25 and a half if we could 25 okay, so the 25% chance Maybe call it a 30% chance because 25 and a half that we get down That we touched that number um at expiration, okay, so you have about 70% chance You're gonna 70% chance of making money you're basically gonna have about a 95% chance of managing a winner in this trade Seems like a decent seems like a decent thing to do Let's go with that Do you think you're gonna be long a short delta's by putting this on Uh long delta why because I have two short Puts you're right. It'll be more than you're right. You'll have about 25 long delta's I'm very proud of you. Yeah, it's It's hard to look at you, but I'm very proud of you And those are at the money sir 50 delta each right that's correct and then uh the one that's in the money Yeah, we've got to give it 70 delta something like that. It's basically up to 30 showers. Yeah 25 to 30 delta's look at this Look at you you doing quite well. All right, let's put that in it seems like it's moved a little bit You know since we put on this fit let's put it in 53 cents and we'll see what happens That's That figure to get filled that was perfect Let's see that let's go to the field orders I'm sorry there you go. Thank you. Did you get price improved? No 53 cents. Okay good enough. Cool All right, so we have one more problem child. Let's open a bob at the top of the page This is this is more than a problem child. Okay, so you're down around 11 hard bucks You wanted the stock to stay you're inverted. This is classic inverted anybody who's ever Watch tasty trade and hasn't been able to watch a trade yet go wrong and inverted throughout you have been inverted and wrong Throughout this whole duration of this trade We actually sold that 81 put when it was at the money Yeah, just inside the money and now the stock is rallied all the way up to above 84 this morning. Okay. What do you want to do? I mean So here's a case where here's a case where your your deltas are actually They're actually true I mean, you know the notice you still have a dollar 80 in extrinsic value in that 81 put and that 81 put You know is two and a half dollars out of the money. I mean would you roll this? It's an interest. It's an interesting. What if you rolled and then got more inverted Like if you rolled and then went to like the the 83 how are the markets and boba From your experience that just trading it in November I mean, I don't think we've had much issue getting filled we have it But they're a little bit they're a little bit wide and what was our original stance on you know why we were staying into this trade We stayed into it look at all the stuff we did us we put on this trade. I don't know how long ago as a bullish trade Yeah, it was a big lizard stock went 25 dollars against us. Yeah Now it's gone 35 dollars the other direction we went through earnings to try to save us on this trade instead the earnings took the stock up six dollars At some point you got to say you know people who's asking a when This is when this is when so I so I look at it as Just staying here because my market opinion is bearish on the market But this has been the drag on your account. Yeah, that's two thirds of my of my losses is this trade And we were even about two weeks before earnings. I mean we were down about 20 bucks Just a tough one it is It's trial by fire. I mean he got he we'll get I got more fingers left So if this one takes one I got I got nine others. We'll we'll get it back. I'm pretty confident about that All right, let's take a quick review here on on on what we would do we had a nice fun time With the Halloween weekend coming what would sasnoff do and we were the sasnoffs And the sauce teased us the sas teased us or the batten off So I'm the batten off which one I like better nor nor do I neither actually there's probably right Um, we looked at a ratio spread I never got to the broken wing butterfly part, but since you did the 3028 In Twitter one by two your synthetically short The 26 perfect And if you wanted to define the risk and buy a wing you would buy the 24-put Because your two dollar profit risking two dollars on the on the on the downside Do you understand like you could make two dollars? Oh, you lose two dollars with basically 65 percent It would be a four dollar wide spread to the downside correct Great job out of you today You did really really good who comes up next? Yeah, Tim night next. What do I know? I'm gonna say peace
Video: 041 - Selling Premium In Gld 11 05 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm going to be back. I think we're back. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat? How are you son? Good day. I had to have some good earnings plays. I had a great run on the earnings plays the last couple of days. So yes, good job. Even though they were in subordinate. I love those trades. Yeah. I love those trades. That's what we find them. Yes, today, but I love them today because they worked out for you. They're actually saving your account. Let's take a look for a minute. You're about $135. I think you made about $150 on your earnings plays alone. So more than that. More than that? Yeah. Made 90 some on the Facebook one and then we closed that. Or did we scratch that? Whole Foods. What do we do with that? Whole Foods, you made money. Yeah. You're right. Don't forget that. You should get used to that. Yeah. I won't be saying that. You can't even see me. 44 bucks. There you go. All right. You got it. All right. You got it. All right. So what are we going to do today? The first thing that jumps out to me is your two things. Your theta decay is quite low. Your buying power effect is quite large, which is a little disturbing with a $30,000 account. You're not having. Like we had a high theta decay. I'd be okay with it. Your go to position beta weight right there on the left. You could just click on it. Go to SPY. Now it showed you Delta, short, 133, but you beta weight. It's 240. About as high, 238. It's about as high as it's ever been. Yeah. So you've got a lot of buying power being used. It's mostly tied up in the ETFs and Boba. Boba is a pure directional play now. This is becoming a negative directional play. All right. So you've got a couple of things. I know you mentioned gold. Let's go to a chart of gold, which I think is a great. So here, we're taking into consideration those parameters that you have or those issues that you have in your account. Yeah. So like a covered call, even though it's a $100 stock, it's a little bit high, $105 stock. You know, a covered call, I probably wouldn't be looking at doing if you were going to play the contrarian role here, stocks down around 5% in the last 10 days alone. I'm assuming you're going to be a little bit bullish on this. I didn't talk to you about it. Yeah. Okay. 38% IV rank, you know, all things being equal over the last six months alone. I don't see the IV rank getting over 60. So 3840, I consider that pretty high. So it opens up all strategies to me. I think you could sell premium in there. I know we've done some research that shows around a 35% IV rank is kind of our cutoff when you have extremely low volatility, which is what we have now. You want to catch a falling knife here. I get it. It's the type of trade that I love to make. So I'm totally alone and board for it. But what I'm trying to quantify here is, you know, the limitations you have in your account because of all the buying power you say. Okay. That being, that taking into consideration, let's go to trade page of GLD and let's decide what you want to do. First thing is what month, right? Do we December? Perfect. 45 days is our sweet spot. 43 would be perfect. Change the oil price for me if you don't mind to a tasty trade. Thanks. Okay. Walk me through it. We didn't rehearse this. So walk me through it. Yeah. We don't rehearse 95% of everything that we do on this show, at least hour show here. And we don't rehearse anything on the show that I do with time. So go ahead. Walk me through it. You know the deal. I mean, I was looking at either a call spread or like to do a call spread, financing it with a put that's just a naked put. I mean, I know that uses more buying power, but I figured that, I mean, my initial thought was a call spread. Okay. So a debit call spread. Okay. I mean, it's, I would rather you sell here. We don't have a lot of data to carry. We have a stock that has relatively high IV to itself, IV rank. I'm leaning towards it. Let me try to get some sort of credit. Okay. So, you know, you can sell it at the money put spread, which is this it you can go a little bit wider on the put spread. Like just click on selling one of the 103 puts for a moment. He confirmed it sent one time. So you're using about $2,000, $18,000 in buying power. So if we're selling the 103 put, we could go all the way down to the anything of money above the 83 put because that's 20 points away to use less buying power. Okay. So all I'm trying to do here is I'm taking what you can take that down. All I'm doing right now is like trying to take what you said, what I said, find something that you agree on what you want to do, then kind of mold it into your own trade with all of the different limitations that you have. And by limitations, it just means, you know, how much money you have in your account. Okay. Okay. So let's let's let's let's let's go down a little bit for let's see what the first option is for a dime and see what happens. Yeah. Okay. So the dime is just a number I'm picking out of my head. I'm low price. Ten cents, 11 cents, 12 cents, 5 cents, 6 cents. Anything that's going to save me the $1,000 or so over the next 43 days. So I can use that $1,000 and make more than the wing that I'm buying. Ten cents, 12 cents, 13 cents. All right. So just for the sake of math, we can cut it in half by going to the 83 put in paying 16 cents for it, right? So like we like to sell, we like to say 63. 90. What I say 63. 83. Right. 83 would be $20. We can go to the 93 and cut it in half. We're using $1,000. Yeah. Instead of $1800 or $1900. Actually, I'm using less than that because you would have the losses like $800 and something $8000. Right. Yeah. Okay. I'm fine with that. So let's load up selling the 103 and 93 just for. Okay. We're collecting over a dollar. If we're doing a, excuse me, an iron condor. If we're doing a strangle or a straddle or a straddle, but a strangle, we like to collect over a dollar, it kind of all fits. The 103 put go up a little bit. It has a delta of around 30. I meant the other direction. I apologize. Very good. Around a 30 delta, right? 33. Probably being, I mean, you can say the 102. I'm skewing it to get at least a dollar. Okay. All right. So we're using a $1,000. We have a product that's, that's being up. Do you want to sell a call spread to try to enhance? Yeah. So what you'd be doing is kind of making a jade lizard with defining the risk to the downside. But we're not defining the risk to the downside. We're using less buying power. Yeah. We're not going to hold this. We hope we wouldn't be holding this for a $10 loss in GLD. Yeah. Do you? Yeah. We would never get down. I mean, like, we would never have let it stay on. If, if, we'll never say never. I never thought I'd be holding Boba. I never thought it'd be long Boba on its way down to 55 and short Boba on its way. Up to 85. Yeah. So never saying never. Sometimes you get twisted in the wind. You know, especially at the time of the market that we've had over the last couple of weeks, I think we're up like, I don't know, 15% in the last two weeks or something. I mean, three weeks, I just unbelievable movement in some of these products. Okay. All right. Anyway, let's look at the call spread that we can sell. Now, it doesn't mean we have to, but let's look at it. Now, I'm just going to kind of scan with my eyes. You can stay right there for a minute. The 108, 109, I'm just taking a $1.38 minus 108. Like I'm selling one on the offer and buying one on the offer. That's a fair spread to me. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. So that's trading for around 30 cents. Yeah. We like to collect one third of the width of the strikes. That would kind of be the first one that I would look to sell. Now, what you have to say is, is that 30 cents worth it to make the 70 or like if it goes right? So you'd be selling it for a buck 40 or so, right? Approximately, I think it was about a buck 40. Yeah. Got to click on selling it one away. Okay. Is it worth it? Or do you just sell the put spread and have the directional risk on one side? I think we have that. We have an iron condor there. Well, that's what, that's, call it whatever you like. I call it a Jade Lizard if it was just three legs. Defining the risk, that makes it an iron condor. Yeah, but weren't we trying to do a debit spread on that? Oh, no, no, no, no. Okay. So you wanted to go long the call spread and short to put the finance. That is what you said. Yeah. I took the liberty of being the older statesman here and saying, okay, well, I want to sell premium because you need to sell premium. And I don't want to buy a call spread and sell a naked put. And not really collect any premium. I'm looking to get my theta decay because we had this conversation about like, oh, nine minutes ago about how you don't have a lot of theta decay in your account. I also don't have a lot of long deltas either. Okay. So then just sell the put spread. Now it's not that gold is, is looks like it's inversely correlated. So you're kind of adding to your short position in the market. Which I'm fine with. Yeah, I'd rather just stick with the put spread then. You're simple minded. I got it. You know what? All right. Let's just go back and just delete that and just sell the. I'll do that when I'm out of here away from you. We're going to do it now. 103. 93 put spread. We can put it in and then you can change it. One 13. What was the training before? 114. Oh my God. Let's see. Stocks. 175. 177. Yeah. Okay. Well, do you want to go in at 113 and have it working? And let it work for a little down tech. Yeah. Go in 113. 113 it is. Okay. Can we go to Boba quickly? We only have about two minutes. As we wait for the market to sell off to roll your diamonds or IWM and your SQI. Let's take a look at Boba for a moment. Not that Boba has sold off at all. It hasn't. What can we do in Boba? Like, here's a decision. Do you want to keep the dream alive or do you want to let the chips fall with a mate? You're short about 76 shares of Boba, which I've already kind of explained to you. Basically, a short 100 shares of Boba. Yeah. Okay. You can stay where you are here. 81. You want to stock below. You're going to pick up another dollar. You're down about $1,200 in change on the overall position. Close up. November for a minute. And you're short in, but an open up to send performing. And you're short in Boba. Inverted. You're short. The 60 call. We can't roll to the 60 call because there's no extra in the value. It's worth $25 in change. Almost 26. It's worth a lot. Yeah. But there's no extra. Oh my god. Let's have fantasy football team. I hope we're doing okay. We all right? Uh oh. Big time trouble. All right. So what would I look to do? So I'm always looking to collect around a dollar. So where would be the first call that has extrinsic value of a dollar? You look at the puts. Yeah, the puts. Which puts trading for around $1,75. $1,75, yeah. Okay. So I would roll that 60 call to the 75 call. Now I'm theoretically taking a loss, but there's no theoreticals in trading. You have a loss of $1200. I'm trying to keep the dream alive. The chances of getting down to 75 are basically, uh, change that from extrinsic. Thank you. It's probably somewhere around 15%. It's 18%. Okay. Okay. So there's a 40% chance that we might touch 75. Not great, but not bad. Yeah. It's not, it's almost 50, 50, right? Stock goes down, you know, $2.5 and it's a 50, 50 shot. Yeah. Okay. So I roll to 75 and then I also take my 81 put down to 75. And then make the 75 straddle. Let's change return on capital to delta for a moment. If you could just draw an arrow on it so people know where I'm talking, that would be great. Okay. So the 75 call has an 85 delta. We'd be short that. So I'd be short 85 shares of stock. And the 75 put has a 15 delta. So I'd be short net net a total of 70 delta. You're short 75 delta now. So, but we have $2 extra in premium. A dollar from the call and a dollar from the put versus $1 with two weeks to go versus $2 with a month to go. So all we're doing is extending duration. Yeah. You're not changing your delta problem or good thing if the stock goes lower. Yeah. You understand what I'm saying? Yeah. That would be my mindset. Okay. It's been a problem child. Yeah. Or you close it and you give up on them. Now when your first grade principal called me up on the way home in my car saying that your son has a problem in school, I didn't give up on you. So maybe you shouldn't give up on Baba. Keep that in mind. Let's say a quick second and go over what we talked about. We talked about gold. We went over your position a little bit. We decided to sell a put spreading gold even though it seems to be inversely correlated to the market. When it goes higher, gold has been going lower. So we're kind of adding to your position. Not adding at the same prices as before, but adding more advantageous prices just because we're higher. We got to get something working here. Who comes up next? Tim Knight. Next. Peace.
Video: 042 - Are We Really Rolling Our Position 11 09 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I think you were back when I started. That versus bat. How are you, son? Good. You damn straight. You're good. Let's take a look at your account. About freaking time. I can't believe you're down $1,000 if you're today. We're happy about it. Yeah. Well that's because you're up 750 bucks today. Yeah. Winning bus days. One of my bus days for sure. On I get it. The Dow's down 200 and even he has a piece of down 25. But we've been watching your account go the other way for six weeks. Yeah. Without a down move. Without a down move. And you've been playing for a down move. And then you finally got one. Yep. So you can see how fast it comes when you get direction right. Now, how can you get direction right? Just staying in the trade longer. So I've got some things that I want to go over with you today before we move forward. Okay. Let's go to your field orders for a quick second. And then I'm going to explain everything that we did. I'm not going to look at SPY for the moment. If we have time, I'll get to it. I'm just going to concentrate on DIA for a moment. Now let's look at what you did in DIA. I'm going to go over it in detail in a moment. Okay. You bought back your November 165 call. And you sold and at the money call. That's giving you 50 short deltas. And you bought and at the money put. That gives you 50 short deltas also. Let's go to the card that I had the research team make up for. It's a very simple card, but I want you to take a look at it. Okay. So all you did here was a risk reversal. Remember, you're sure to 165 call. The diamonds are trading for 177. It's 1200 point move in the Dow. Okay. For all intensive purposes in the next 11 days, that one call is going to turn into 100 shares of stock. It may say 8590 deltas today. But the puts trading for 1012 cents. It probably doesn't have a move today on a 200 point down. That's just because there's still time left. Time has valid. Exactly. And 100 shares of the dollar. Exactly. So all we did was we didn't capture any of this move or anything else like that. All we did was we closed that. And all with one click sold out the call. It's short one D 77 call. It gave us 51 short deltas. And then we bought the 49 put. It gave us long 100 deltas. So a little bit of stock substitution doesn't use any more buying power than that one short call. It's exactly the same thing. Let's go to, let's go to the analyze tab for a quick moment on. So give it to you each way. Once through, through looking at it on the activity and position page. Once on an art card. And now here. Open up the prices. Strike prices. I think you just. You have to. Rece maybe reset them. No, no, no. Go. We're seriously price slices that thing down. You're going to have to. Is there a right hold on hold on stop click and stop. Click it. I'm just kidding. There's a on the other side of the page. Like a little blue or gray. There you go. You got it. Perfect. Okay. Was it not open? How'd you do that? Ah, okay. Good. You reset the slices. They moved it. Used to be on the other side. So much for me. Okay. So this is your original position that you had on. So what I simulated here was selling that 165 call and then unchecked. Unclicked the D 77 call and 77 put. And you'll notice that your delta's short 81. And you're using about $4800. I think it was actually a little bit less than that. But around $4800 on the position. Now take out that no 65 call and click back. You're short 87 delta is basically the same and using $3800 in buying part. Which I think was about the same as you were using before. Yeah. So all we did was we've extended duration. Give me yourself time to be right. But we haven't changed the position at all. Now you said to me after I did this, didn't we lock in a $600 loss or something like that that we had on the trade? We have that loss. Whether it's locked in in November and we wait. Remember what's going to happen since your delta is exactly the same. If the Dow goes down by argument stakes for four points over the next 11 days. You would have made back $400 on your. On the call on the call that you were short. Let's say you did not. If I did nothing, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the calls worth 100 delta is going to move four points to make four points. The short call long put is going to make four points. You've done nothing to change your position. Okay, now let's change the position a little bit. Let's go back to the monitor tab for a second. You're short about 200 short. You're short about 200 beta weighted deltas in SPY. You can exit out of this if you want to. I won't use it again if you need to. Close that up. Let's go to beta waiting. Click on SPY and then go down to the bottom. I short 213 shares of SPY. Okay. I lost my trend of thought for a minute because I didn't do one important thing on the diamonds. Can you go to a trade page of the diamonds? There's one other important reason why we did this today and probably the biggest reason why we did this today. The little arrow on the left hand side that's pointing to the right underneath underline. Make it go lower. See what it says? Yeah, right there. That one. Click that. See the dividend where it says .079. It's about a seven or eight cent dividend was back in October. Diamonds are one of the few ETFs that pay a dividend every month. Like SPY does it quarterly. They'll do it in December again. The queues do it quarterly. A triple-witching, quadruple-witching. They'll do it quarterly. The diamonds do it every month. So you would have had a dividend, a small one of eight cents. That's not significant. The SPY could be a dollar. It's a hundred bucks. But the short calls would be. Somebody would exercise. Somebody would exercise them. You'd come in short stock and you'd owe the dividend. Yeah. Now the last dividend in November, which is going to come up, I think it's November 20th or something like that. Last year, November, the dividend was around $0.44. That's $0.44 for every one contract. Now all of a sudden it becomes a little bit more. Yeah. What's the dividend going to be this month? I'm guessing. Because I'm really knows until about a day or two before. And even then you don't even know it's a guesstimate. But you can tell by the risk reversal what it's trading at. How much dividend's going to be? It's probably going to be around that 40 or 45 cents. I don't understand why it would change. So we're going to have to move this position anyway. Let's do it today when there's some volatility in the market and things are kind of bit up. Okay. Now let's change the position. So how can we change the position without using any buying power? Because look at what we created. Go back to the monotep for a moment. I hope this comes full circle for everybody. And open up your position. Okay. Let's look at the position that you have. Your, I'll go from the top. Your long 143 put. Your short 146 put. So your one to one. Okay. I'm missing a long call. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. You're getting ahead of me. Your short one. Yes. You're missing a long call. Yeah. So your long call is $3800. So whatever call you're going to buy can be as far as $3800 a way. Yeah. Well you're going to do want a little bit closer. But hold on a second. Look at what else you have. Let me start from the beginning again. Your long 143 put. Your short 165 put. Those offset each other for buying power. Yeah. Now you're sure to call. You're missing a long call. And you're long another put. You could actually sell a put somewhere below the market. And that's not used and actually reduce your buying power. Okay. So I could like. So I could buy back the long put or sell back the long put. You could sell a put and that's going to give you more long delta, which is kind of what you need, right? You're short 200 delta. You got a market that's down significant today. You move from November to December. You can sell a far out of the money put. Back down maybe at that 165 level. And let's say it's trading at $75, $80, or $0.90. That's another $0.90 of premium. Because look at your theta decay. It's very, very low. $1.53 for almost $4,000 in buying power. And if we buy that call that's out of the money, we're probably going to reduce that buying power by two thirds. Yeah. It's down to like 22 or 2300. Maybe even less. Yeah. Let's go into the trade page for a moment. Hopefully this will come full circle. We'll be able to take a look at it in the analyze tab if we can. Okay. I know we're down to four minutes. All right. So let's take care of the call site because that'll be easy. Open up December. And let's go all the way down to about like, let's say, get up to open up another couple of strikes. Let's say 187. I'm just going $10 wide. Okay. So if I'm short the 177 call and I buy the 187 call, that's going to take about $1,000 worth of buying power. So minus whatever credit that we received on it. Okay. All right. So let's go down to the 188. Just to buy something that's what you want to go down to a nickel. You want to go to 191? It doesn't matter. Yeah. 191. Let's go to 192. That's $3.3 wide. Whatever you like. Which one you want. Pick one. Yeah. It doesn't matter. 191. 191. Okay. I mean, that's further. So stay right there. So we're going to buy the 191 call. Yep. And now we said we're going to sell a put, right? All right. All right. So again, I'm only going to the 165 put because you already have a 165 put on that you're kind of short. Okay. Do you? What's the change that theoretical price to probably being in the money? 15%, 30% chance of a touch we could actually go a little bit further. But let's keep the short deltas that we have. Yeah. Take more premium on that one. Okay. One, two. Yeah. All right. So let's sell the 165 put. So that should not be unlocked that. There you go. So we said we were paying around four cents and we're selling that at around 85. That's 81 plus 84 cents. That works good. So let's go enough. It'll allow you to do it that way. But let's go. Let's do that at 84 cents. Cool. If we don't get filled, you got filled 84 cents. Cool. Okay. Yeah. Check out the analyst. Okay. Let's check out the analyzed. All right. So get rid of that one call at the bottom. So it doesn't confuse anybody. You can just exit out on the right. Or right there. It's fine. Perfect. All right. So you went from 87 short deltas to 71 short deltas. You went from $1.50 and theta decay to $4.50 and theta decay. And on the analyzed tab, you're using around $1400 in buying power instead of $3,800 in buying power. And you haven't changed your delta risk on the trade. You've actually reduced your risk. Okay. Usually somebody would get up and applaud at this point. Yeah. Okay. And I was doing this live in front of a studio audience. They would get up and applaud. Good job. Let's go to the monitor for a quick second to decide what you're going to do with Boba. Okay. Boba is using $3900 in buying power. How much money can you make on this trade? Approximately. Where's it at right now? 80-124? That's correct. I'm going to start the stock as 81-24 if you put a circle out there. If you can't door butt. I mean, we only have $24 more to make on our $22 more to make. Ehh! Click again. I don't know. I mean, it's $21 wide. We took in... Forget about that. Just look. Forget about that. The account doesn't know what you've taken in. Taken in. Oh my god, I'm stunned. Sound like you. Account doesn't know what you've taken in. What's left in extrinsic premium there? Let's say the stock is 81.5. Let's say the stock is 81. What would those 81 puts be worth of expiration? Zero. Okay. How much are they trading for? $232. So, approximately, how much money can you make on this trade if the stock is below $81 and above 60? $232. Okay. So, around $200, $230, any one of those answers would have been acceptable to our judges? Yes. Okay. Okay. So, you can make $200 and use a number of options. And use $4,000 in buying power. Usually, when we do like a strangle or something like that or a straddle, we'll be using around $2,000 in buying power. We can make around a dollar or so. So, the money that you could make kind of fits as long as you're okay with the directional risk. That's something you got to decide. Okay. If you're not comfortable with that directional risk in Baba, then you probably should close it or roll it. If you're going to roll it, we can talk about that tomorrow. Okay. So, you're going to close it. It's pretty self-explanatory. Yeah. I can do that. You can do that all by your loansome. All right. Let's take a quick second here and decide what we talked about. Well, are we really rolling when we just roll that diamond trade? Answer the question for me. Kind of. Kind of. Like, we're keeping the same position and direction, but changing how... Completely nitrate. Do I look at it as an extension of the same trade that we had on? Sure. How do I figure out how much I'm going to make or lose to take the trade off at 50 percent? I don't know yet. But anything better than what I have now is a win. Yeah. Awesome job out of you. You're number one. And we used three-thirds less bank power. That's good. Thanks, son. You're number one, too. You are. Who comes up next? You got Jim Knight next. He's number one A. Peace. Peace.
Video: 043 - Rolling Iwm 11 11 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Yeah. Nicky were back full strength. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat. It's like an optical illusion here. You can't do that anymore. Yeah. If you see what I'm wearing during the day, you go home and change. All right. How are you? I'm good. You did a very nice job. Cat vs. Bat yesterday. You guys were, you guys did good. It was fun. Yeah, it was good for a little impromptu. I actually watched. It was very enjoyable. It was very rewarding for me to see two of my star pupils. I've only had two pupils on this show. But two of my star pupils getting along. You were fighting completely different from your sister. Everything was great. You guys seemed like you liked each other. It was good chemistry. Talked together. It was nice. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Yeah. You haven't seen that. You should check it out. Cat vs. Bat. We did a learning straight. It was okay. Of course. I was just kidding you. Just kidding. I don't know if I would have made a trade in Macy's, but I saw the logic behind it. Yeah. Okay. So today, let's go to your account statements for a moment. Okay. So Macy's, it looks like you made 15 bucks on the trade. Sold it around a dollar, obviously. Since you have 15 bucks, we haven't made a trade in your career in Macy's in there. I understand the setup why you put it on high-imply volatility. Relatively cheap price stock. You went basically neutral on the trade. Stocks down $6.70 on a $3.60 expected move. It was down $2.00 early. And then it was down around $4.00 or so. What was sound about it was your entry. Like your exit is predestined. There was two ways to play this. Either sell and call that's at the money or just out of the money, depending on how wide the strikes are, meaning $2.00, $1.00 wide strikes. Sell a strike right at the money or cover the trade for basically a scratch. Macy's, I covered probably for a scratch. Yeah. If I had a choice, you don't want to keep savings. Who cares about Macy's? If it was Apple's and Apple learning, I'd probably say, okay, I'll sell the at the money call and then I'll make it into something else in a couple of days, roll it, everything else like that. Or if it was one of your other trades, GLD, FXE, maybe oil, Pandora, I don't know. It's one of the bigger stocks that you care about that you would hold a position in regularly other things. Exactly. Something that's a one off. Exactly. The only mistake that I saw you making, it's not really a mistake, go to your canceled orders, was you were trying to do it as one trade and that call that you were buying out of the money was the 52 with the stock, what was it below, right around 42 or something of that, is not going to move. And since the stock was moving so much, all of the, you can see, you've got filled on the trade, go back to the filled orders, a one cent on the call, all of the trade was that 42 put. So I would have put a bid in for the 42 put and then just, well, I would have bought the call immediately thereafter. But if I pay, it's the difference between paying one cent for the call or two cent for the call as opposed to a difference of paying, you know, 65 cent for the put or $1.65 for the put. That's where the risk was on the trade. And that was probably why it was harder for me to get that fill. Exactly. Because it took me some time and I ended up just kind of like, you can see I walked it up and then, and then I was like, okay, I'm out. So I just got that fill. It's fun though, right? Yeah, it was fun. Yeah. All right, let's close this up because something that you have had a position on a long time, we need to take a look at, and that's IWM. You've already rolled your diamond and there's nothing for you to do in the cues or SPY and we can get to it. We'll get to it if we have a chance. All right, let's take a look at what you have here in IWM. The first thing I do is I look at all of the marks. There should be more calls. Are they not? Go down a little bit further. On the right hand side, there's a little toggle. They go. They go. They go. The 19 calls. So they just leave it there for a moment since the puts are so cheap. So the first thing I look at is where everything is marking at. And that's between the theta and the Vega there. You see four cents, four and a half cents, that's the put, the 106 put. Then you're short the 111 calls, $6.50, the 111 puts, $0.17. So everything that you have here is basically deep in the money call spreads. Yeah. That's where your risk is. That's where all of your delta is coming from. So if I'm looking to roll this trade, the first thing I'm looking to do is roll those call spreads. Now we can do it one click on dole. You can do it one click on toss. You're already in toss. Let's do it in toss. Okay. Okay. So all we're going to try to do is go to trade page. Use approximately the same amount of buying power. And we're going to take the trade from November to December. And you'd have to open up a couple more strikes and do me a favor. Change that the price. Thank you. And the change, now change return on capital to positions. Okay. So we already said the puts, like the puts are 18 cents. If it falls out of bed, where are they going to go to? 20 cents? Yeah. I mean, we can leave them and deal with them after the call. You'll do more at one time. We don't like to leave 18 cents put out there. Plus we'll move them to December. We'll collect a little bit more premium. But let's do this now. All right. So how do I look at this position? If you can go down just a little bit more, I know you have a 19 call. Okay, stop. Your deepest in the money call is the 11. Your furthest out of the money call is 19. It doesn't matter like what you do here. If you look at this as being short, the 1115 call spread and then you're short, the 114, 119 call spread. Do you look at it as like you're short, the 111, 119 and you're short, the 114, 115, it doesn't matter, right? It's just one full position. But when you're looking to roll something, if you do the 1119, very wide, basically almost a stock substitution, it's going to be very, the marks will be a little bit wider. IWM has decent markets, tight markets, but markets will be a little bit wider. And plus the counterparty, more delta. So they're looking at the stock, but the stock can move for you to get filled. So if you can do this a little bit tighter, meaning let's roll the 1115 and then we'll roll the 1419, that's less delta risk, less delta risk for the counterparty, less delta risk for you means a tighter market. Okay. All right. So let's roll the 1115 call spread. So let's buy the November 11 calls, sell the November 15 calls and then we go to December and we're going to do the exact same strikes if it works. Now let's look, the 11 call, which is your deepest call, has a 23% probability of being in the money. That's not good. No. But there's about a 50% 47, 48% chance that we touch 111. This is a bad trade gone bad. Yeah. We're a good trade gone bad. Well, that's a bad trade because we lose it. Right. So let's keep the same strikes. Now, if I was deeper in the money like 107, I might consider pulling it out a little bit to maybe the 111, 111, 121, 13 area, I just want to have a 50, 50 shot. Okay. Reasonable. Yeah. Right? Because that time comes around 45 days. There's 37 days to December. All right. Let's sell the 11 call and we're going to buy the December 15 call. Right. Same strike. 1111. And then send debit. Now you got to remember that 47 cent debit. It's kind of, okay, cool. Because we got to try to get the same amount of credit back on the put side. Yeah. Okay. 45 cent debit. Let's go into 45 cents and you can cancel and replace it. There's 42 cents. Because I looked this earlier. It was around 30 or 39 cents. There's 40 cents. Let's go into 41 cents and we'll cancel and replace it later on. Okay. Let's go back to November. Now we've already done the 11 15. Let's look at doing the 14 19. So let's buy the 14 calls in November. Sell the 19 calls and do the same exact thing in December. Sell the 14 calls and buy the 19 calls. 6 cents. Look like it was about 10 cent debit before it makes a little bit more sense with the stock a little bit lower. So that's about right. Let's go into 7 cent debit and see if we get filled. No ding. Okay. So we'll cancel and replace these. And when we get filled on them, we're going to have to go to the put side. Maybe we change the put side a little bit. So let's look about what we're going to do in the put side. Go November from minute. Okay. So you're already short the 11 put. All things being equal, you could go up to around the 12 and a half put. Let me explain why. We always talk about how, so what is this? These deep call spreads. They're basically like strangle substitutions. So you can go slightly inverted in them. Personally, I'm going to stay stay right at the 11 because we already know that there's almost a 50 percent chance that we touch 11. Remember, we want the stock to go to our short strike. All right. So when you get filled on these, which we have a couple of minutes here, we'll let them work and then we'll go to them. And you get filled on these. You're going to buy back this 11, six put spread and you're going to buy back the 11. It's probably a deeper put. Let's take a look at what number it is. 11, three put spread. And then you will sell out a put spread as wide as you can get that you're not using any more buying power in December. In December. Okay. Okay. So let's take a quick look. We can do it this way. Let's take a quick look at what the 11, three put spread is trading out in December. Because remember, we were doing one for around a 50 cent debit and the other one was like, let's say a 10 cent debit or a little bit less. So let's go 111. 103 is fine. Okay. 75 cents. So you were paying about 60 cent debit and you're selling out about 75 cents. All you're doing is extending duration for another 35 days. It's not costing you anything. You're not using any more buying power as not costing you anything. What's the benefit? The benefit is you have more time. Yeah. What's the downfall? I mean, you're still using that buying power. You're still saying it's correct. That's correct. But on a small, on a smaller time frame, what's the downfall in the next week? In the next week, if the market were to fall out of bed, your front month, if you had stayed in your front month, that's going to contract a lot faster. Okay. Back month is going to contract as fast. It's still going to have around the same delta. I think you're short around 50 delta now. You'll probably be short around 30 delta. So you're almost taking away half of your directional risk. You're getting a little bit more premium in there also. So I mean, it's a give and take, but you've got to extend duration. Yeah. I mean, you've had a small move down. The timing's not the best. I'd love it for, you know, the market to be significantly lower, but you never get that. You never get exactly what you want. Okay. All right. Yeah. All right. So let's just take a quick break here or a quick moment just to go over what we discussed. We went over your earnings play in Macy's and really was a wash trade, a scratch trade, but the mechanical way of getting in and the mechanical way of getting out really was two choices to make. Close the whole thing basically for a scratch, which is probably my preference. And if I didn't have a scratch, we always sell the other side, giving ourselves more time. The theory here or the theme to this whole that everything we do is giving yourself time to be right. You have to give yourself time to be right. And that's what we exercise or what we're trying to do in IWM is giving yourself some more time to be right without using any more buying power. Okay. Yeah. All right. Good job, I do you yesterday. Good job, I do you today. Good job, I'm at the market. Let's get a little bit more of a sell off and we'll be a little bit happier. As soon as those go through, I'll push them through on doubt too. Fantastic. What do I normally say? What do you mean? What do you catch what I say? What do you catch and bad say? Peace.
Video: 044 - The Bat Ears Butterfly Adjustment 11 16 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Back when I start, bad versus bad. How are you son? I mean it was a great morning opening for me, but this route. Why didn't you do something about it? I mean there wasn't much to do. We've rolled all of our positions to December, so we've done the adjustments for our November positions. Now it's just... Well let's take a look at your account. It's the perfect answer. I had to listen. There was something to do. Well one thing I wanted to do, which we're going to do now, but I would have preferred to do it earlier when I thought about it, but I wanted to do it for the show. Anyway, you're up around 35 or 40 bucks for the day, down 300 for the year to date, which is a couple of months that you've been trading about three months or so. We're down as much as 4000. We're up as much as 300. 300? Yeah. 300 400. So this morning you were actually up about 200 and something, $1.00, only down 100 for the year to date when everything was kicking in. Let's bait away your position to SPY and see how much that's changed. Hold on, it's going to be fine. All right, that's okay. Do you remember how many deltas you were short on Friday? I mean, probably a similar amount. Oh, it's not probably similar amount. It was around 50 deltas. You can come out and if I can remember, you're silly one lot. I can look through. All right. So you picked up a couple of deltas about 30 or so. Okay? Yep. All right. Thaided a K is up there around $70. That's looking good. All things being equal. I mean, between your Vega being short 159 about half your delta, that's about perfect for a neutral type position, which is what we've kind of thought about the market over the last couple days or short, going into the sell off that we had. Obviously, missed this morning, but you're still we're benefiting nicely from it. All right. Let's get out of that for a moment. I wanted to talk to you about Amazon. Now, Amazon was down about $15. Maybe even a little bit more. It's up $6 now. It's amazing. It's 40. It's a 40 point range in one day. It's very... Yeah, you were just about unchanged this morning when it was down somewhere between $12 and $16. So this is not going to be as powerful and maybe maybe you don't even want to do it today. I don't know, but we can take a look at it and you can see for the future. Okay. Cool. All right. Let's go to the Analyze page and toss, which is something we don't use a lot and put an Amazon for me. And I apologize. Get those slices. You can show all that's there. Very good. Okay. Let's just look at the position. And before you look at what the risk graph of this whole position looks like, let's just look at the Greeks for a moment. Short six or seven deltas. Very small. They did a K around $2,080. Kind of large for the amount of delta that you have. Vega smaller for gamma smaller .03. Okay. We know that you have on a broken wing butterfly, which is the 640, 650, 670. So what strike are you embedded in? What's the short strike that you're missing in here? The one that you're in the spread, you're embedded short. The 660, 670. Perfect. So now let's go to the risk profile. Okay. And that's exactly what it shows you. Now the stock is 650, which is the perfect strike for you at expiration, which is 30 some odd days from now. So it's not perfect today, but if this was expiration, it would be the perfect spot. And that's why you've got that kind of pop up. And you're safe all the way out to a little over 660, because I think you collected around a $1.40 or 50 or something. $1.75. How about this? Take that white line past 670. Looks like a B20. $1.75 on it. Right. $1.75 because look on the left there. You see what it says? You lose $825 after expiration. D-19. Do you see that? Yeah. The inverse of that $10 wide spread. $1.75, that's what you collect for it. All right. So when the stock was lower, and like I said, you probably don't want to do it now with the stock up 7.5 dollars, maybe you do. It's entirely up to you. I mean, there's no wrong answer to it. I wanted to throw a broken wing butterfly on to the downside and kind of make these things that I call like bad ears. Let me show you what it looks like on a risk graph. Okay. All right. So let's open up the student, close all those, yeah, push it down if you can. And then we'll get back to them. Okay. Open up D's. Change that last X net change to Tasty Trade for me on the top there. That's the right deck. Perfect. Okay. So again, stock was $15 lower. So I'm going to change the strikes around a little bit. You have to open up a couple more about 20 or so. Now here's my thinking on it. Can you go to a graph of Amazon for a moment just to see implied volatility because I know it's higher than it's been. All right. So you've got around a 50% IV rank was a little bit higher earlier this morning, obviously, with the stock going lower. Earnings have already happened. Stock's been on a tear since earnings. Open around 600 and change. We want it to 675. Now the stock has sold off a little bit. And I thought we could take advantage of this by keeping our original assumption, but maybe lowering our risk and not lowering our risk means we're going to, you never, you can change your risk. We're going to lower the amount of money we had at risk. But I was going to put risk on both sides instead of just on one side. Right now your risk is to the upside. Even though we put this on as a bullish play, when your portfolio was much more short, then it is right now. So I was going to kind of neutralize this position, taking advantage of the down move, which obviously you never predicted what's going to come back. So let's go back to the analyst head. But it still works. Like, like if you were to tell me when the stock was 660 or 670 that we'd have a chance at 650 to do this, I would say let's jump on it. But since I saw the stock down to 630, I say maybe you don't want to jump on it. So it's 6 of 1.5 dozen of another. All right. So we're going to put on another brokowing butterfly to the downside. Let's take a look at this. Buy in the 615 put. Selling $10 wide. Sell two of the 605 puts. And buy one of the 585 puts. That's $20 wide on one side. $10 wide on the other side. Exactly like what we did on the call side. It was trading for around a buck $5, buck $15. Now it's just making a dollar just for argument 6 just to keep it even. Okay. So let's think about everything before we open up the slices, what we'd be doing here. All right. We're embedding a short put spread. Correct. Right? Yeah. Okay. A short put spread is a bullish or bearish position. Oh, it's going to be a bullish position. It's a bullish position. Now you had on short deltas before. So that's going to kind of neutralize some of those short deltas. All right. We were using a $1,000 worth of buying power to the upside. Now we're using approximately $900 or $1,000 of buying power to the downside. So you're not using any more buying power as far as the broker's firm is concerned, because you can't close above your short call strike and below your short put strike at consideration at the same time. The widest side is the same width on the account. That's correct. So that we're not using any additional. That's correct. So let's look at your slices first. So great. So you went from short around six to short around four. Your theta decay was around $2.70. It's $6. So your theta decay got cut in half. Your theta decay doubled. Your delta got cut in half. Your buying power is still $1,000. Now let's take a look at what this position looks like. So let's go to the risk profile. Perfect. Thank you. Okay. There's those kind of bad ears that I was talking about. It looks like an iron condor. But you don't benefit as much from the middle. You do make $275, which would be the credit from both of the spreads. Exactly. Exactly. So now you took here like markets move, just like what we had today. Markets moved. You know, when we originally put this trade on, you had a bearish assumption. We still put risk to the upside, but we bought an out of the money call spread if you remember. Now the spread is right at the money. Yeah. But we put an out of the money call spread and sold a further out of the money call spread with volatility high. Now as luck would have it or as luck wouldn't have it, we got the move we wanted just too quick all the way up to, you know, $6.75. But because the spread had to find risk and because there was time, 30 some odd days, you would down about $250 or $300 on the trade. This morning when we were a little bit lower and we could have gone down a strike or two from here and collected the same dollar, $1.15. But tomorrow it would be, we'd have a wider range of that like the credit. 100% correct. 100% correct. Because if we hit it, 100% correct. So this is not like a, your existing position, not a terrible position. Adding this to it wouldn't be a terrible position. Now we're both going to be on vacation for Thanksgiving week. So what I wanted to do is, you know, so you think about putting on new trades. You're not going to be watching your account as diligently as you will be. I won't be watching my accounts as diligently as we would normally be. So this is the type of trade that I can kind of put on and forget about it. Like, you know, if the stock goes higher, stock goes lower, you know, I don't care as much. Does that make sense? Well, I mean, we really didn't change our risk. We still have this. I mean, we, we can add it. Well, go to the far side again and show, yeah, there you go. So you got $725 instead of $825 worth of risk. So you didn't, it's the same. I mean, we're in the same spot. We're in the same spot. Only here you have, you know, you have a chance to make a good amount of money on both sides. Yeah. If it stays in between, you know, that's a, that's a big range. Now, now that looks like a big range, but let's move the graph over a little bit because the downside risk is below 580 and the upside risk is above 710. So it's still a net, net short position. And that's why you have those short deltas. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Let's go, let's, let's take a, a quick second here just to go over what we, what we talked about today. Firstly, what we do is we looked at your overall position and how your deltas had changed. Second thing we looked about is like, hey, you know, we're going to go away. You're going to be on vacation. What type of new trades do you want to put on? You got to kind of bring it in a little bit. Meaning, look at your existing trades and see, how can I change them to have less risk? Or do I like the risk that they have on? In Amazon, we looked at putting on what I call bad ears onto an existing position. I prefer to do it into strength. I prefer to sell this put spread when the stock was going lower, but we don't have that anymore. One other trade that you're going to have to look at while we have a moment here is FXE. Yep. Now FXE down 70 cents, let's go to a chart of FXE if we could for just a quick second. We've got about a minute, minute and a half left. Now FXE, kind of interesting this move that we have. It's a little bit deceiving by what I have up there. A 3% move in the last 10 days. But the stock is actually down $6 or almost 6% since expiration on 10, 16. Now what's, does that sound like a lot or a little? I don't know, but let me put it into perspective for you. If you go to a trade page of FXE. Remember, that's about a 22 days ago. So take a look at the FXE. Look at 22 days. We'll look at 25 days. We just had 22 day move. We had about a 6% move. What's the expected move in 25 days with the implied volatility in FXE being just under 13%. $2.83. So it's moved almost twice as much. OK, so if I'm looking to adjust some delta in FXE, I'm probably not going to be as aggressive right here because I'm thinking, OK, it's just moved twice as much as its normal implied volatility would suggest. It doesn't mean it can't go lower. So it's kind of that falling knife situation where we're rolling down. And we rolled this like a week ago, I think. That's correct from no to December. So it's one of those you can kind of just wait and see. Kind of just wait and see. But that's why I wait and see. Now if that number was $7, I say, OK, well, this move is still there. Maybe you can go a little bit more. Maybe you can go down 14. Maybe it was twice as much as it's supposed to move. Then maybe I probably roll. I'm just my thinking. OK, that's cool. That's two make sense. That's two shots you should be taking out there if you're playing the make sense game. Who comes up next? I'm Nightnacks. Peace.
Video: 045 - Ratio Spread Vs Naked Put 11 17 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Nick you're back when I start my eldest son how are you? Doing well today. Air to the throne. Is there a thought I'm not sure we're giving it to you yet. How are you? I'm good. Good. It's been a good day for me so far. So far. That's been a mile, Dave, in my account, but let's take a look at your account. So this is the first time you've basically been unchanged in the account for the day, right? So you want to go back to the opening of the show and tell everybody how it should take you going. Not as good as you had hoped, right? With the market being higher, now the market's unchanged and your accounts basically unchanged. So does that mean that you have a lot of beta-weighted deltas? Do you know what your beta-weighted deltas are? Yes, they are about 80 and I don't know. You want to count to watch? Yes. 80. So yeah. You got one account? I got it right. You got bailed out because the market's unchanged. What were your deltas when the market was up about 10 points on the Emini S.A.B.s? I don't know. Probably like 100. Take a look at your Greeks there. You're exactly right. It is 100, but how'd you get that? Just a gestivating out. Yeah. You don't look at your gamma or anything like that. Change, rate of change or anything like that. We haven't gone over gamma. Right? Well, maybe someday we will. If you're nice. All right. All right. The first thing that we really should do is let's just look at your fill the orders and you got a bunch of canceled orders. Let's take a look at that as two. All right. Okay. You were trying to do the rob and trade. Trying to do the rob and trade. That's good. Yeah. It would fit you. It would fit everybody else that got it. Nike. I had Nike in there just to, and still pending on there just to see if we could close it out for a real. Let's go to the working world. I think you sold Nike for around 250. 250. 250, trying to pay 260 and change. You got a 270 bid and straight. Okay. I don't hate that. Nike was unchanged. It was down about $2.5. Yeah. It's been over the place. Yeah. So what you're thinking on that? Why do you want to close it? I mean, that's what I like it, but I'm asking you. It's been a full-bowl loser for almost the whole time. And now that we're exactly the answer, don't sell past the close. Yeah. It's a full-bowl loser. You got a defined risk trade. You stayed in it. We actually sold a put spread against it that's biting in the bot right now. Yeah. We had a chance to buy it back at 270, 280, 260. Well, you had a 260 bid and so you couldn't have got a 260. Yeah. But you had a chance to basically scratch a small loser. That's a home run trade. That's the difference between being a successful trader, not panicking, knowing the trades define risk, and having it go your way and being able to buy it back. Now, we missed it, but yeah, sure. That's something that we should look at. Yeah. Okay, great. Now, how are we going to move on? What are we going to do today? I don't know. What do you got planned for? Something. All right, so you've got a little bit of short delta, not a lot. Your Amazon trade is coming back for you a little bit again. You definitely can see how your portfolio behaves on bullish and bearish days. Definitely acts a lot better on bearish days. So those deltas, you know, I call them kind of like real deltas. If you look at your beta weighting there in the diamonds, remember, your short 70 delta, you can just circle it. You can close all the strikes up just for, they go. Your diamonds, your short 50 deltas in SPY. Your only short 70, 80 total in your overall position. You've got another 50 deltas in SPY. Now the diamonds, SPY, the queues, to me, that is the market. Yeah. Twitter might go higher with the market going lower. X might go higher with the market going lower or vice versa. It's going to be more tight to oil. So you have kind of what I call like real deltas. Okay. You're really short about a 70 to 80 delta is an SPY. So that's like for something a little bit on the long side. Okay. Let's go to a chart of caterpillar, C-A-T. Now here's a stock that has not participated in the bull market rally that we had. This fits my assumption. I like to buy things the only way I've been able to since 1983 buy something low is when it is low. And the only way I've been able to sell something high is when it is high. I can't buy high and sell higher and I can't sell low and and buy lower. Does that does that make sense? Yeah. The only way to buy something low is if it is low like today. Yeah. Okay. And I have an assumption that it's going to go higher. I can't buy a high flying stock and think that it's going to go even higher. Yeah. It's just not in my nature. Now you might develop a style that fits that. But right now you're into my thumb. So you can have to do it my way. Okay. Okay. Cool. All right. So high IV low IV. It's high. It is high. It is high. It is high. I mean, it's actually as high as it's been for earnings, right? Yeah. Earnings were just a couple of a couple of weeks ago. Yeah. So it looks like it was just around where it was at earnings. Okay. Okay. A little bit of a commodity related play here in caterpillar too because the earth movers, et cetera. And all of the, I'm going to get a macro view here. But you know, all of the commodities have been going lower. Yeah. Oil, gold, silver. So you're saying if they're, if they're small, I don't know. I don't know. Maybe I'm making a story here for the show. I mean, I've got a stock that's in the Dow. You've got 50 short Dow. Okay. If the market goes lower, this will probably go lower. Will it go as low as the overall market? I don't know. It's already down 7% when the market's, you know, up for the year. It's down 7% in the last 10 days. Let's look at SPY for a quick. So let's look at the diamonds. Since this is a Dow stock. Because the diamonds are 100%. Caterpillar makes up a big part of the diamonds. It's down a lot more. So it's a drag. So I'm thinking if the market sells off a little bit, maybe catapult on a percentage basis, doesn't go down as much. Okay. Because it's like you're saying if the diamonds go down, caterpillar, it'll just probably going to go down. But catapult is down a dollar a day with the, with the Dow or the diamonds up. Let's take a look at catapult trade page. Now it was down a dollar a moment ago. I don't know what it's down now. Down 99 cents. So it's still there. Okay. So open up December. Half dollar wide strikes. Pretty good. Too soon to be two and a half dollar wide strikes. Pretty good. Better than five dollar wide strikes. Just gives us more to look at. Change that Theo Price to Tasty Trade for me. Okay. Awesome. What do you want to do? I mean, if we're going to go blush, we'll do something with the puts. I mean, okay, great. So I agree with you. And that's where I want to go. I want to go to probably a two and naked puts. Could take about a thousand dollars in buying power. Now what put do we normally look to go sell? Usually the 30 delta, which would be the, probably the 65. 100%. It's a weird breakup of the, of the strike. So I mean, you probably, it's the probability of being in the money. Doesn't land right authority because they're two and a half dollars. There's nothing weird about it. It's just, yeah, I instill it. But I just trying to clarify for everybody at home, who might not, you know, English might not be there. Their first language and you butchering even more than I do. Just try to help them with the trading terminology. What's another trade you could do that might be able to make more money. If you are more bullish on caterpillar, I mean, you could do a jade lizard where you have no upside risk, certainly could. Meaning sell a put and sell a two and a half dollar wide call spread that collects more than two and a half bucks. Perfect. What else could you do? You could do a ratio spread, which way would you do the ratio spread? You on the call side of the put side, you'd have to do it on the put side, but that's kind of like why you're perfectly right. Because the put side of you know upside risk, but it's like you're looking for a small down move into the middle of your shorts and your long. Okay. So I don't, I don't hate that. What's, what's a one by two puts bread you could do? You couldn't really do it because the 65 is not trading for enough to like cancel out the 67 and a half. It's not what you went to new cheer high school, right? Yeah. Is that like a premiere high school? Yes. If anybody's at home wants to get on top of one of the top 10 high schools in the country, is that it always like ranked up there? Top 20 in the country. Someone, someone argue that it's the best in the country. Okay. 90 plus 90. I'm just here. Here's how I learned to PS 207, which is not one or James Madison high school. Which is not one of the premier high school running out of time in the country. Okay. The lowest. You just get close 90 and 90 is a dollar 80. $160 is a dollar 60. $170. 80. Oh, look at that. Okay. So ratio spread would work. Yeah. And I don't hate that because I'm not crazy bullish about the market right here. But that does give us some downside risk the same as a naked put. So I like that. What's another strategy you could do? Yeah. Covered call. You got a 70. 70. That's the use of too much buying power for my liking. It will use a little bit more buying power. You're 100% correct. Yeah. Not a ton more, but yes more. Okay. I was coming into this show thinking that a naked put on the 65 line was where we should go. Okay. You may have talked me into a ratio spread, the 67, 65 and a half, which makes you synthetically short what put. Yeah. Um, these 62 and a half perfect. I'm very proud of you. I don't know. So now you look at that at new chair. No, you did not. I definitely did not. No, you did not. You can learn that anywhere, but right here at Tasty Trade. And if you had listened to me when you were 15 years old, you probably would have known this already, but you were too busy. I think you could make money. Other ways, which we won't talk about. Officer, you never go against the family. I know. I know. I hear you. I hear you. So what spread do you get? What are you going to do? Naked put use about a thousand dollars or the one by two, which I'm going to assume is about the same thing about a thousand dollars. Yeah. I mean, let's go with the one by two. Really? Okay. Great. So then it's going to do. It's going to use a little bit more because it's going to take some of the risk from the long spread. Confirm and send once what's the risk? You're long that spread. There's no risk. Okay. Yeah. So you're using about a thousand dollars, a thousand twenty four. Looks at let's X out of that for a moment. I think you're going to use just under a thousand on the naked put or just a little going to naked put the naked 65 put. I can promise that one time. Yeah, it doesn't matter. He's about nine. It's the same. 100 bucks. Okay. You want to do one by two? Um, I mean, are we going bullish on it? Are we because this is like a ratio spread is a neutral to bullish strategy? What's a cover? What's a naked put? Neutral to bullish strategy. They're both the same. You're synthetically short. The 65 put here. Your break even 64. And in the other trade the naked put, you're synthetically, well, you are short to 65. But it's the same, same trade. The only difference is between 67 and a half and 65. You have a chance of making 250 bucks. So if we slowly go down, your ratio spread is better. If we go up quickly, you naked put is better. Let's go with the ratio spread because that I think so because you made it all the if a move in the diamond, if we go down, it's only a 15 minute show. We made the trade. You're done. Okay. Okay. Okay. Put the X. Please. For what's that? Help smile overall portfolio because if the if the diamonds go down and counterpillar moves similarly, that's kind of like where my portfolio needs to go. So give me that extra juice and that. And that you're done talking. I'd like to get the closer. First of all, you got to not route that trade, but by the 67 put, sell the 65 and a half put two times. Looks like a credit of 31 cents. Let's go in a let's go in a 32 cents and you can change it. Cool. When we're done with the show. Okay. And you filled them. Just kidding. Let's take a quick break here and just and talk about what we what we look to say when over your portfolio. And then what do we really look at here? A trade that we could take with us on vacation. You go on vacation next week. We won't be here for the three days of Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday before Thanksgiving. Looking at your overall portfolio, short a little bit of delta, trying to get a little bit of long delta. We decided to go with a naked synthetic naked put, but giving us a little bit more play to the downside, giving us less play to the upside. Your decision. Cool. You live with it. Why'd you close P? Monitor tab for just a quick second. I got what I was looking to get out of it and 100% good answer. You sold the first trade you did was sell the 10 put for 68 cents. Yeah. I said, I hate that trade. Why? Because you can only make about 34 cents managing it at 50%. You managed it at 50% a little bit better. You made $43. That's what you went into the trade for. So that's what you get to add the trade. I don't care like you told me that P is going to stay between 17 and 10 into perpetuity. Who comes up next? We got 10 night next. Peace.
Video: 046 - Iron Condor In Xle 11 18 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Make you a back. Where do I start? That versus bat? How's your day son? I'm hurting today It's the right answer. Let's see your account down about 200 bucks today down about 600 bucks total He's up 2450 Trading near their highs. He many S&P's trading 273 and change up 2450 You have a short portfolio. Let's bet away your portfolio if you don't mind Think you're sure about 100 delta's or something remember what you're 125 remember what you were short yesterday 80s 90s 79 how come I can remember and I look at your account once 79 I just said 80 said 80 90 yeah 80 90 Monday Tuesday Wednesday Loonie de Matty Merkle What's wrong with you? I said I want a count to look at 80 90 it's I made those 20 90 90 on a yesterday was 79 was never near 80 okay Well 79 if you want to say it was between 70 and 80 I say okay fine, but you can't say between the 80 and 90 for 79 all right Rapt around 80 I can go with be can't go between 80 and 90 for 79 okay What are you down today? 200 bucks down 200 bucks even the S&P's trading the other highs. What do you want to do? I don't know keep going I mean I keep joking all on the one stuff. I give you the 600 bucks you can end this whole thing No, no, so you came in here and you said to me. I'm hurt Yeah, but you were down for granted you weren't hurt now you down there too But you didn't mention it like you didn't say it so what makes now different than than before Well now I like I know what the market is doing to my portfolio like when I when the minis are up almost 25 bucks I know my short portfolio is hurting. I mean it when I was down for grand You were you were village idiot kind of like yeah I make 10,000 a mar you realize how hard it is to make a hundred. Yeah, okay. That's fair. That's good Yeah, it's good answer one of what it was yeah, I cool. You have one Phil do order Let's let's go to the canceled orders first and we can see what you were doing. Okay, so definitely looks like Nike Try to buy a 260 263 266 you going up by two cents totally agree with that. Let's go to the field orders You bought it 268 Nike let's open up Nike down the bottom there. It's probably trading right around 1.25. Yeah It's 125 49 so let's just take let's take a look at this for a moment You don't have to put up there. I'll tell you what it is So that spread is trading for about mid price of around two dollars and 30 cents So when you covered it obviously those 65 calls which are now trading sorry the 125 calls We're trading for 62 cents when you did it. So I mean the stock was well below 125 because your 125 puts were a dollar and a half higher Turing 248 instead of a dollar nine that they are now so the stock rally probably about a buck a buck 10 buck 20 Maybe even a buck 50 more and it cost you 30 cents 38 cents. Yeah Did you close it too early? I mean no, there's no way we I could have No one that it was gonna go up to 125. I mean it stinks that we closed it Sure I closed it really but Does it though so let's go to a chart of Of Nike for just a quick second then we'll get to the to the trade that we're gonna gonna look at today. So on 10 1 10 1 Okay, right there if you put the yeah, thank you. Okay on 10 1 you do an iron condor just after earnings high applied volatility You do the 125 you're actually skewing it a little bit right in the middle 125 is You sell a 125 call spread the 125 30 call spread yeah stock has two days below 124 where you where you did the spread and it immediately goes higher up to 133 your call spread is Completely in the money by almost three and a half dollars It goes sideways and you sell on the 23rd you sell the put spread for 65 cents. Yeah Of 67 cents. Okay on that day when you sell that put spread for whatever price you sell for whether it's $0.60 a dollar when you sell that other side your assumption is now changed or you're completely in defense You went from being short Nike to now now I'm trying to minimize my loss. I had sold this for a dollar 80 I'll just round yet $3.20 worth of risk you sell that calls that put spread for 60 cents you're trying to reduce your Exposure you do you only have $260 worth of risk at that point on that day on 10 23 you have to say to yourself and this is goes to Like think about when do I want to close something when the one is a scratch in here because my assumptions change now a Scratch in here is a home run. Yeah, you lost 18 cents on this you were down 2250 bucks on it $18 it's a win it's a win and you forget about it. Yeah, like you know I guess today you're gonna look at it because the stocks right at 125 where you wanted to do yeah now yesterday With the stock the stock closed yesterday 22 123 closed 122 and a half the stock close at 122 and a half you were actually down about $60 right $50 on the whole trade. Okay, so stock rallies of dollar you get half of what you had lost from yet the day To me it's home run. Mm-hmm because the scratch was my was my new goal now. Yeah scratch meaning when we sold that put spread It we were looking to get out a hundred hundred percent at a scratch as soon as you quote unquote neutralize or take the other side or change your assumption You look at scratch Cool, all right, let's go look at a new trade. Let's go into XLE if we could now it's an energy You're going on vacation. I'm going on vacation. You got to take that into consideration. You have About 15,000 dollars of your 30,000 account being used XLE is a lower price stock 68 dollars. I mean You're not gonna use a ton of buying power if you want that I have naked options on here Mm-hmm. But again, let's take into consideration what we have we already have a short portfolio So we're gonna benefit from a down move we're gonna get hurt on an up move in the equities You already have some oil exposure to in In a backwardated-lotted puts and some other strangles that we have on an oh IH and a few other products Okay, that are related to XLE. I want to go neutral and XLE here too, but I want to do it in a I want to do it in a defined risk way. I want to do it like a classic iron condor now from our research $3 wide iron condor is about the best use of your capital By the amount of money that you can make versus your risk versus your reward. Okay, you got a decent high implied volatility 46% is not as high as this has ever been. I mean you had that spike up to To a hundred back in back in August, but if you throw out that little spike 46 relatively high for XLE. Okay, okay, let's go into the to the trade page of XLE 30 days to go in XLE you do have quarterly options with 43 days left to go You can open those if you want just to show everybody Markets in there just out of the money 274 296 on the puts 190 202 on the call so you look about 12 cents wide 45 the other reason I'm looking at this is 45 days It's our optimal 43 days close to 45. Okay, close it up and let's look at the regular Deceptions you look at 238 252 193 201 wow they're about they're basically about the same, right? Yeah, okay So now you have a decision to make you can either Stay in December with 30 days to go which is where most of your portfolio is probably All of it all of your portfolio is there now or you can go out to 43 days completely up to you are the quarterly's any less liquid Well, you know what let's change that deal price to volume and and we'll go we'll go that route I would assume that they're a little less liquid and that's just a guess I haven't looked all you'll notice that there's not a huge amount It's an ETF. Yeah, exchange traded fund Well, it's an index actually it's not even an ETF, but okay All right a couple thousand on the put side relatively relatively light as is light the market everywhere all right Let's close up December. Let's go to Okay, then you got some zeros. Yeah, so now that what did that do for you? Well, I mean that just shows me that there's not a lot of volume there. It's not very liquid I'm going to I'm going to Dees cool. Let's do it. Dees with 30 days all right We'll look at a classic iron condor $3 wide you want to go to the put side first we can do that you can have to open up a couple of extra strikes We're gonna sell the 63 put and buy the 60 put Hold down the control key and then on the call side And just because we went a little bit long otherwise we talk about why we're going to these you can look at the 70 and a half it looks like And The 73 and a half Okay, just about one third the width of the strikes natural bit is a dollar mid price is 115 with three dollars wide on both sides Pretty classic Classic iron condor use of K IRA compatible Uses a relatively low amount of buying premium. What's the buying premium going to be? 285 that's correct the inverse of the of the credit the total that you could lose in verse of the of the of the the strikes in minus the credit You received yeah, right dollar eighty five dial 15 plus a dollar eighty five equals three dollars That's what your your strikes are three dollars wide. Hey confirm and send one times take a look at it And you basically says everything said dollar eighty five 115 max loss max profit your break even 60 just over 62 just mean just under 62 just Under 72 let's look at the probabilities of each one close it up from it And the chances on getting down to about 72 or well if you're up to the upside it's fine Sorry You're looking at a 70 and a half as we're oh you're talking about from max loss. Yeah, maxless Okay, so you're looking at around 21% you'll get a 70 some odd percent probability of success, which is basically one third the width of the strikes It's just was trying to tie it all together. You want to do that trade cool. Yeah, okay put it back up there Mid price 115. Let's do our little trick change the sell to a buy since the markets are a little bit wide there One 14 is a mid price for the buy. Let's go back Go to a sell 115 160 all right, so I'm gonna assume you're gonna have to get you're gonna have to probably go down to about 113 maybe even 112 Just go one more click so the computer says if you look down at the buy and they're expected xyle price the computer says You should get filled around one 12. Let's go in at 114 and then you and then you can work it down cool And if we rally more in oil you'll probably get filled. Okay Good yeah, okay, let's take a quick second to go over everything that we spoke about here We looked at your portfolio still leading short like we have been no assumption change there all things being equal I think your accounts doing okay for the magnitude of the move that we've had back up your down significantly less than you were At this time when the e-mini s and p's were trading 20 73 you know a couple weeks ago So I think it says yeah, that's good not happy because you're still down on your overall account We looked at a new trade today in xyle classic iron condor risking about $185 to make a 115 with about a 70% probability of success One of the type of trades that I think any new trader can make Was that me you did 114 cool good job at you nice great sound yeah I love you. I told you keep keep them going anything that makes you click the button That means oil must be rallying which is probably good for tasty trade nation which is awesome. All right who comes up next Got Tim night next. What do I know? I say peace
Video: 047 - Debit Spread In Uso 11 19 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think we're back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat? How are you son? Doing pretty well. I've gotten a little relief on some die Amazon die Let's see your Can't ever not the one that has been good, but I got some some leaf in Twitter and gold Both are up a little bit today You got some things going away. You've got your rose gold Some oil stocks a little bit moving your way On the other side of the coin you now have Amazon down two dollars. It was up six or seven dollars earlier So you got that going away. So right now your overall account is doing good on a on a nothing day Even the S&Ps are exactly zero Nasdax up six rustles down seven dials up 18 binds up 26 you really don't have any bond exposure There your counts up 250 bucks today down about 480 bucks for the year to date. Do you remember what it was down? Yesterday when we were doing the show the e-minis no your your your P&L year to date 500 and some almost 600 500 it was 580 bucks. I think okay something like that So you having a you know you get a good good chunk of it back today because you got some things going away Not everything because we don't have the market going a little bit lower Which would be the e-minis of P's or SPY Q's and I WM positions. You have all your short positions. Okay All right, that being said I want to show you something I should have told you this earlier James. I apologize. I'm gonna need the account statement tab I'd like to take a look at your OIH position Now I don't know if you just had a moment take a look at it, but you're up about $14 on it today And you have to change that to about maybe 60 if you wouldn't mind I apologize should have had that up there already because I might take them Oh, it popped in quick. All right good Let's look at what we have here because we we kind of We rolled this from from strength meaning we had sold on the on 10 seven that's on the bottom there We sold this strangle for two dollars and fifteen cents and then we had a chance to take about $55 out of it How do I get that number? I'm just looking at the no part of that double diagonal that double diagonals when we rolled This position from no to December you'll notice the calls we sold at a dollar sixteen We bought them back at 58 cents and the puts that we sold originally nine cents were bought at dollar one I'm just doing quick math in my head and you've got about 50 Some art sense profit in there. Let's call it 55 cents, okay? All right, so you had 55 cents profit now you roll it for 43 cents So when I look at your existing position we improve the position that we we rolled the put Down um Strike to 29 we change the strikes. We didn't improve the position But we changed the strikes, but now we have this existing position on the December portion of it the 32 29 for what price? 258 That's correct and all you're doing there said looking well. I have my like your own little cheat sheet That's how I keep track my roles. I mean that's so that I have a quick reference for it I got it I do the same thing only I do it with the platform itself. Yeah, indeed either one is equally as good I just add the 43 cent credit to the two 15. Yeah, I get the same exact number you got 258. Yeah, okay. Let's see where that's trading at right now. So remember we were up 55 cents It's trading we sold it for 258 You could just create closing order if you wouldn't mind just highlight the two of them it'll give you Good straight for around a dollar 39. So I would say real quick there Okay, but a dollar 39 so dollar 40 so we sold it for 258 It's trading for about a dollar 40 that gives you a dollar 18 profit. We made 55 cents the first time you're up about 55 or 60 cents this time All saying is okay with not a lot going on It's not using a lot of buying power when do we close things time and price Let me go backwards for a moment the price. It's right in between the two short strikes Well till he's contracted Sometimes gone by you were looking to make 60 cents the last time we rolled it so you got another 60 cents I don't know Maybe we close it into strength to here meaning like profitable now 29 days is still plenty of time to keep this position on Your decision whether you want to close it on that I'm just giving you like what I would do like I would probably look to close this trade That's me. Yeah, you may like I'm going on vacation next week. You're going on vacation Yeah, maybe it's a close it if I decide to close that or even if I don't decide to close that I might look to do another trade in an oil related product That's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to at some point soon We should consider closing this and I think so I would probably do it immediately if not sooner, but that's me All right, let's go to a chart of us. Oh, so what I'm trying to do here is I'm taking one trade off in an oil related stock Or ETF and now I'm bringing up another oil or related stock I'm trying not to stay too correlated in in one thing volatility right now is in these oil products now USO has rallied a little bit since we've been sitting here over last hour or so, but USO change just under 13 bucks High implied volatility relative 40 40% not great not Low not high. I'm going to default to a debit spread, but I'll show you why let's go to toss platform Now remember my eyes the way I'm thinking I just closed something in OAH, which is all right. Okay, let's go to December If I wanted to sell premium because 40% is kind of it's not 50 if it was 50 I'd say okay, let's sell premium, but let's look at the product itself too if I wanted to be bullish I could sell it there the 12 and a half put for 36 or 37 cents not a lot of premium not a lot of If you change that the price to think or swim to Tasty trade things not a lot of premium. Yeah, if I was bearish I could sell the 13 call not a lot Yeah, if I want to go one strike out of the money and sell a strangle in here, which is really half a strike out of the money Not a lot of you. Yeah, so I go I have to almost do a debit cover call. You're not getting enough for that one the One strike out of the money with the stock being 13 $13 and I'm selling the 13 call for let's say 59 cents the most I can make is 59 cents I'm looking to manage that at 50% it's you're talking about 20 to 30 cents. Okay, it's not worth my time. All right Especially using especially using stock especially using a naked put. Yeah, too much buying power Okay, we were using about $600 in buying power in that oh I hate so let me try to find something that's that doesn't use a lot of buying Power that would be a debit spread. Okay now typically what we would do is we would go one strike in the money one strike Admin and one strike in the money is the 12 and a half call so let's buy the 12 and a half 13 and a half call spread Take a look at Okay, so it's trading for around 50 cents earlier was trading for around 48 cents. That's neither here nor there What am I doing here the stocks trading exactly 13 dollars? I'm buying a 12 and a half 13 for 50 cents. I can make 50 cents. I can lose 50 cents This is the perfect 50 50 shot not paying any extrinsic value over the current price of stock Now the stock is 1299 you're paying one penny over I don't consider that paying anything over extrinsic and that's because the 50 cents is the difference between the short Call and the current stock price of the intrinsic 100% correct. Okay Good might be all right might fit you let's go a little bit wider and see what we can do Let's look at buying the 12 13 and a half So now I'm just going a little bit deeper. I'm gonna be paying about 20 23 cents an extrinsic value for that 12 call I'm gonna make it up by selling that 13 and a half call now I have more risk I have 84 cents worth of risk versus 54 cents worth of risk I cannot make one to one here make actually a little bit less than one to one So I have a little bit higher probability of success on this trade and why what's the extrinsic value of this of this spread? 50 cents I mean the extrinsic is What's the intrinsic value of this when I buy this 50 50 cents 13 and a half to 13? The way I'm buying this spread not selling it. I know sometimes we always sell everything it gets a little bit Conve you dollar so we're paying The intrinsic value would be a dollar and we're paying 84 cents for it. Okay, right? If the stock were to close here at expiration. Let's just say 13 dollars I bought the 12 call for 84 cents the 13 and a half call is worthless. Yes 16 cents under it's not under value. It's under intrinsic. Okay, my break even is gonna be 12 84 hit confirm and send one time So my break even if you can circle it that'd be great my break even is 12 84 the stocks trading 13 on the last Spread that we were looking at the stock was trading 13 I was buying the 12 and a half 13 and a half call spread 50 cents my break even was 13 dollars Pure 50 50 shot pure stocks substitution. Yes, I limit my upside But let's take a minute here and X this out for a moment Delete that for just a quick second the chances on getting over 13 and a half is about 34% at expiration So I'm limiting my upside Yeah, there's a 30% chance that it's gonna go higher than 13 and a half so great stock substitution in a in a stock That has doesn't have a lot of premium although it does have a decent IV rank Okay, do you want to get buying the 12 and a half the 12 13 and a half call spread? Yeah, okay, so Typically I put 12 by the 12 call. Sorry, so 13 and a half call Let's go in at 84 cents and you can change it when you decide what you want to do at OIH if you close OIH You can get more aggressive with us. Oh, if you don't close OIH you could do what you want in US So it's $84.86 worth of risk. It's not a lot of risk Could you a pure play on oil though? No, okay, add some long delta to add some long delta. I don't know if it's small I mean, yeah, it's long delta in US. So I don't think it's actually correlated to the S&P. Okay So all right, it's long delta, but not to the S&P. I confirm send the send it's great What would be your target on closing this trade? I mean 30 some out cents 33. Yeah, so so let's take that into consideration like now we don't have we have guidelines that we like to follow You really can't it really you really have to make more than 50% on that vertigo Just make it worth it with you got $3 in commission dollar 50 on one side dollar 50 on the other side Delafi by the call of up. Delafi sets $3.6 $6 total You can't make you know you can't make 30 cents and spend six I mean you can yeah, I mean still a win. I mean it's It's still lunch for you and you're Do you have girlfriend? No Boyfriend no, no, okay, well it's still lunch with it's still lunch with you and your friend. Yes So we're gonna look for like 40 cents Yeah, you're gonna have to be and that's it's not unfortunate, but that's That's life. Yeah, okay, yeah, no, but I know I should think about closing it. That's just my opinion all right. All right We're at a time. Let's take a quick break. It doesn't it. Yeah, let's take a quick second here to go over what we talked about We didn't really go over your position because we've done that already We did that yesterday in the day before you have nothing that's expiring for exploration tomorrow You don't have to worry about any dividend risks We kind of went over or haven't really but we'll go tomorrow with with any type of dividend risks You might have especially over the next week that you're gonna be on vacation Same thing that somebody should be doing out there and then today we looked at us Oh, and oil related products that you have my argument was let's take one thing often in an oil related product and put something else on That's in oil and oil related product and use small amount of buying and use a small amount of buying power because we're on vacation Yeah, you don't want to have the risk. You want to enjoy yourself. Yeah, hopefully when we come back from this one It won't be like the last vacation What happened last vacation? When I came back from vacation and oh your account. Yeah, you went on vacation This is your world's favorite you favorite bat went on vacation. We'll come up next. We got Tim night next peace You
Video: 048 - Selling Volatility 11 20 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm going to get you a back when I start bad versus bad. How are you son? Good. Happy Friday. Happy Friday to you too. Getting excited for every occasion. It's going to be far. Yes, we leave tomorrow if we don't get enough, we don't get too much snow here in Chicago, too much wind, we get out. So it would be gone for the next seven days, gone over Thanksgiving week. I'm going to take this quick moment to give thanks to all the special things in my life. You being my first born child, my first born son. I want to give a lot of thanks to you being there for me. You're going to take care of me when I get older, right? Me and you, you and me. Of course. Okay, good. Let's take a look at your counts. See if I'm taking care of you so far. Not so good. That's so good. I'm going to give you a little bit more than what you made yesterday. Yeah. We're going to do about $600 to $600 range for quite some time now. Yeah. Managing some winners. Yeah, took off a YH today. Took off a YH. I see some cancel replace. That makes me feel good. Yeah. I started off a little bit below the mid price and just worked my way up and then sat it at the price I wanted to get filled in. It actually looks like you let it sit for a couple hours. Yeah. So, okay, good. I've moved it up a penny and got the fill. Good. Good for you. Good for you. Yeah. Oil's unchanged today. A little bit higher earlier. Euro still weak today. It was strong yesterday. You can't get two days in the right direction for us. No. Okay. All right. Well, what do we do now? Meaning you have going away. We've tightened up your account. You have nothing that's expiring today. You have no risk. You shouldn't whether we're going on vacation today or any other time. I don't know. Couple of days before expiration. Whether a couple of days is two weeks before expiration or two days before expiration depending on how long you let things go. You should be pretty much out of expiration by today. Rolling or closing. Rolling closing. You know, if you're rolling, usually it's earlier as better than later. If you're closing, you have a defined risk trade or something like that. You can wait as long as you want. I don't know. If we're managing at 50%, our hand is usually played for us long before expiration week. So everything that we do is kind of designed to at least give you the best shot on your own assumption. We sell high implied volatility when I have your rank is high to take advantage of contraction. We look at market capitulation on the downside and on the upside. We have a little bit of a volatility place setting up in my opinion. Let's go to chart of VXX. Now you've made a VXX trade. We're probably going to make about the same similar trade that we made before. Kind of what I saw with oil today. Oil oil. You had a roll. You're going to a trade page of forward slash VX for men. Forward slash VX not VXX. Forward slash VX is the is the VIX future. Can you go from active to all? Not that's perfect. All right. So VXX is made up of the two front months of forward slash VX futures. It gives you exposure to forward slash VX futures. Okay. As the future goes to expiration, the fun VXX has to keep rolling from the front month future to the back month future. And I don't know quite frankly know exactly what ratio they have to have. Like they may start off the 50 50 with you know 40 days to go. And then they have to get to some number where they're they're all in the back month. And then when when's December come comes on, then they have to start moving into into January and then they keep rolling and rolling and rolling. And which one of it like for what we're looking at here, what are the two that you're talking about the front in the back month. So so right now, you know, remember with four days and December with 33 days, sorry, 36 days. Okay. So does that like correlate to monthly aspirations or is this just a different? It's actually a little different in in forward slash VX than it is in equity options. Okay. Okay. Yeah. It's not really into it because I don't say that for another. I just want to tell you what VXX is. Let's go to let's go to VXX. So it's made up of these VIX futures. Which way does VIX futures go when the market goes lower? Typically. There would go higher. They would go they would go higher. More fear. More fear. Go back to a chart of the XX for a quick second. So the market's been doing what lately? It's been going up. It's been going up. So this is going lower. Yeah. Two weeks ago, volatility was going higher because the market was going low. And that's where the eight that little spike up. Okay. Yeah. Okay. All right. So we're getting to this this period where they're rolling out of all of the front month VIX futures and coming back into the December futures, which is what I want to trade in VXX to December options. All I'm saying is you kind of take away a little bit of that role right now. So if we were to get a because there's no backwardation, there's no you're not rolling from a cheaper future like they have to sell out that cheap future and buy a long more expensive future. Go back to forward slash VX and maybe I can explain it one as we're doing this, which is probably a good thing. The even the S at P's are at their lowest point of the day. So what I'm trying to say is they're they have to sell out their long futures. They have to sell out these November futures, which are trading for 1655. And they've got to buy some December futures, which are 1765. Okay. That role is just about done because it's only four more days left. So this VXX is probably made up of some large percentage, much larger percentage than any other time in this month that it's mostly December futures. Okay. So there's no there's not as much of a drag on VXX. Okay. Is that how it typically happens? That is typically how that's typically how it is. Okay. And that's all built into the options. It's just like if a stock like if you looked at DIA yesterday, you could tell that there was around a 50 cent dividend because nobody knows what the dividend is in DIA. But it was going to come out tomorrow. The market's really good at figuring it all out. Okay. So the puts the calls they're all they all figure this contango or backwardation whether the front month futures higher or lower than the back month. They figured all out. It's all in there. Okay. But I'm saying at this point is there won't be as many there won't be as much roll. There won't be as much drag on VXX. Okay. Are you all right? All right. Let's go to VXX. Now we're going to put this in above the market because the EMEs and P's are actually only up to 75 now the Dow's up 50 was up 120 earlier. So we're going to December options. If you sell what what what senses an inverse product to the market and when you have a bearish portion. Yeah. But it correlates directly like so. I'm looking at my portfolio. It will benefit from a down move in the market and this will coincide with that. If it goes if you sell puts if you sell calls it would be a quote unquote hedge against your. Okay. Now I never sell naked calls in VXX. You can sell a call. I just I don't sell I don't sell volatility. I don't sell I don't sell volatility on volatility. I just because of because here I mean. Let's this is VXX. It could go from I've watched it go from from 17 18 to 31 in two three days. Yeah. Okay. You could make the argument that it went from 31 down to 19 in seven eight days. So it's just as volatile. Okay. And I can see that I don't think it is like we went in four days from 18 to 26. I don't I don't think it's I mean that does that make sense. Yeah. I mean it's it's almost like a takeover stock like like if I was bullish on a takeover stock. I might do a covered call. If I was bearish on a takeover stock. I might sell a call spread but I probably wouldn't sell a naked call. Okay. Because of the possibility of a huge quick move that's going to take me out take me out of my account take me out of everything. Yeah. That makes sense. Does it doesn't I don't know if it does because a lot of people it doesn't you know there's a natural drag on this meaning that it it's slowly kind of decays without any pump and volatility. So a lot of people say you know what selling these calls they're fat they're rich. You already have a portfolio that's bearish on the market. You know it makes sense. Now let's look at the call spread from them. Change that the price to probability of being in the money if you don't thank you. All right. So let's look at the 21 22 call spread for a moment. Okay. Go let me see the probability of being in the money because I picked the one that's around a 30% probability of being in the money. Okay. The 21 22 call spread if I told you there was about a 70% probability that that would be out of the money. What do you think that $1 spreads should trade for? 30 cents. For around 30 cents push it back up there because I don't think he saw it was trade for. Trade for 22 cents. Okay. Let's do the same thing on the put side. It's probably a good exercise for you. Yeah. Let's go to the option. So you're looking at it at approximately it's 4% more. So we'll take that into consideration. Sell the 18 17 put spread. I'm sorry you're going to have to erase that. Sell the 18 17 put spread. It's trading for 40 cents. It's almost double. Yeah. Now let's take into consideration that that was a 37% probability versus a 34% and we'll say okay it's trading for 30 cents. Yeah 36 cents, 35 cents but it's not trading for 20 or 22 cents. Okay. That's the volatility skew in the calls. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. That just means that out of the money call that you have to buy has a much higher volatility than the call that you're selling that's a little bit fatter. Okay. Okay. So we're going to put on not a complimentary trade meaning a hedge trade to portfolio. We're actually going to add more to your portfolio getting short. Now you're sure about 125 for 100 you check today. I'm always checking. Now you are good for you. Click on delete for a moment. All right. Let's look to sell the 19 put. Let's just sell one 19 put. I think confirm it said one time. All right. You're looking at around $700 in buying power. Okay. Let's delete that for a moment. Stocks trading at $19 we're selling the at the money put basically at the money puts 50 cents out of the money. We certainly can sell the 18 put. I want to be a little bit more aggressive. Maybe a little bit more aggressive means that I'm trying to collect a little bit more premium. I have a lower probability of success ever so slightly by about 50 cents by the 18 put. But let's let's try to define our risk and see if we can use a little less money. You'll notice that the 14 put is offered at two cents. The 13 put is offered at two cents. Let's do the spread. The 19 14 put spread. And let's see how much money we use then. It confirms and send one time. Obviously it's going to be the credit received minus the width of the strike. Cut it in half. So you cut it in half. So being a little bit more aggressive using a lot less buying power, 50% less buying power. You know, I know it's $370 for you here. But if it's 10,000, $3,700, I mean, paying two cents for it. For paying your paying, that's correct. That's the that's the give and take. You're paying two cents on a on a 10 light. You'll be paying 20 bucks to keep that extra money. You're almost borrowing the money from yourself. Yeah. 20 bucks for the next 29 days. I mean, you could go put that money on another trade. And so the two cents allows you to put on two trades instead of one. It's big. Yeah. It's big. All right. Let's delete that for a moment. I want to take a little bit of a hedge on your overall portfolio. Let's oh, no, keep that there. I'll put it back up. What price are we going to go in it? Let's go in into higher price. Go up to around 143. Okay, now stop from it. That might seem like a lot. Yeah. But look at the expected price move. It's a 26th move in VXX back down to 1921 or so. The stock with traded as low as 1919. Now remember what you you're portfolio is. This kind of how to kind of how I hedge it a little bit. Let's go down to 41. Okay, there you go. There you go. All I'm doing here is saying, okay, if the market rallies back, your portfolio is going to suffer a little bit by and then we'll get filled with this at a better price that's trading at now. If the market sells off, I'm not going to get filled in this, but your portfolio is going to benefit from it. That's the best I can do. Cool. Sound good? Yeah. Let's say a quick second here and go over what we talked about. We went over and I'll do this in better detail. The the forward slash VX relationship to VXX. But we talked about volatility and how we could maximize our return by buying an out of the money put. We looked a little bit at the volatility skew in the calls versus the puts. We decided to sell puts bread, which is a bullish or bearish position on the market. It's going to be on the market. It's a bearish assumption on the market bullish on VXX. On volatility. That's correct. Perfect. Good job, Beto. What comes up next? Yep. Coming up on August 9th now or next. Good luck.
Video: 049 - What Do I Do With My Broken Wing Butterfly 12 02 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Nicky we're back. When do I start? Bat vs. bat how are you son? Good good. Do you mind he's down a couple of, uh, couple of, uh, like a lot of you are. See? Yeah that's great. Don't be too happy. We're right back to where we sub before we went on vacation before we got these tans. Yeah. Let's take a look at your account real quick. The E-Mini S&P is down 2375 who would have done down 150 bonds up seven. Your account, your to date down 650 bucks, 645 bucks. That's about it. It's almost exactly where we were when we went on vacation a week ago. The E-Mini S&P's are actually $10 lower than where we were when we went on vacation. Basically unchanged is all I'm trying to say. Yeah. Even though it feels like we're down a ton today. And it does. I mean, you're up 240 bucks now to $139. But you were down about $200 and change earlier today, right? You got a lot of, obviously have a lot of beta-weighting deltas. Let's take a look at what they are. Let's click on beta-weighting and go to SPY. Thank you. You showed almost 200 shares of, uh, of, of SPY 185. And your vague is only 89. So what does that tell you? Remember, remember before, um, about a month or so ago, we had a similar situation. We like to see those numbers actually kind of a little reverse. In a perfect world, if we weren't at market extremes or had a huge opinion on something, you'd want your vague to be, you know, short 200 and your delta be short 100. It's actually kind of the opposite. So what did you experience like a month or so ago that you're experiencing right now? Give a lot of delta risk is the point that I'm making. And not as well as data decay. You're direction. You're leaning direction. No, that can, that can change, you know, with the 25, 30 point additional E-Mini S&P move, you know, your delta is only going to be like 120 or so and your vague is pop up a little bit. You know, remember, the more out of the money options you have, the higher your vague is going to be. And, and the more in the money option you have, you know, your, your delta is going to be going to be bigger. Okay. You want to talk about Amazon. And I want to talk about it too. Before we get to that, let's go to your field orders. XOP is having kind of a bad day, oil is having a bad day down around $1.80 on oil going to be making new lows in a moment. So you rolled, you're rolling from strength really, with a better to have rolled yesterday, you knew. But you're, you're closing your December and rolling to January, relatively high implied volatility in XOP and you're up about $200 on the overall position. Yeah. Which is a couple of months older. Yeah, we've had it since October and it started as a, you got $145. Yeah. It was a skewed strangle and then we rolled it up to, you know, a straddle at one point and added wings and then rolled it again to another strangle. And now I'm, you know, it's cool trading. Yeah. You start out with, you know, the best late plans. I'm going to do this and I'm going to make 50%. And then that doesn't happen and then all of a sudden you just try to make money with the position. Okay. You want to talk about Amazon. Let's take a look at that. I don't know from, from this page for a moment, but I really want to thank you. Perfect. You're long, a broken wing butterfly, which has an embedded, what in it? You're long, a, a broken wing call butterfly, which has an embedded. It has a long call spread. And what do you mean? Take a look. Yeah. Missing the six 60. Okay. So yeah, long, long call spread. Short call spread. Short. No. I'm short. The six 70. Six 60. Six, six, seven, six, six, six, seven, six, six, six, seven, eight. Short call spread. Yeah. It's right. Stick with me, kid. I'm going to bring you places. You're, you're in, you have an embedded short call spread. A normal butterfly would be 40, 50, 60, equal distance away on each side. Long the, six 40, short to six 50, short to six 50, long the six 70. You're missing that six 70 call. And instead you have the six 70. So you're in bed. No, missing the six 60. I have the six 70. Let's go to a chart of Amazon for a quick moment. Do you remember when you put on this trade? Well, on, on what date, maybe what the stock was? It's kind of a trick question. I don't expect you to really remember. Well, I mean, the stock was like around six 25 or six 30. You're right. It was six 30 on 11, on 11, to, on 11, to, right there. Yeah, put your, okay, on 11, to, stock making new highs at the time. Yeah. We said, we had a bearish portfolio. We said, okay, let's do something that's going to benefit from a standard deviation move inside Netflix. You went out of the money, but the six 50, six, excuse me, six 40, six 50 call spread sold to six 50, six 70 call spread. Did that all for $1.75 credit? Hoping that the stock would go up to six 50. Now is that a bullish player or bearish play? It's bullish to neutral, but it has upside risk. And that's what you're experiencing right now. Now the stock made a new high today, six hundred eight hours. US me, you know, dad, what are we going to do with this trade? We're going to get a lot of questions on, uh, through support or anything else. Let's go to the analyze tab and take a look at this trade. Uh, is that the analyze tab? Beautiful. Okay. So, uh, stop right there. Perfect. Okay. So you, it says show all. Did you, oh, so you have this spread in there? Okay. So this is the, this is the original split. Put the cursor over where the stock is right now. Six seventy six and change. The most you can lose on this is eight hundred and twenty five dollars. You're down around four hundred on this trade already. So you have about four hundred dollars worth of risk left on this trade. If you look at that gray out area, the standard deviation for this time frame till December 19th is somewhere around, let's just call it six hundred and thirty five dollars on the downside to seven hundred and fifteen dollars on the upside. And we're right in the middle. Yeah. If we're looking for a move down to six fifty or we're looking for a move up to six, you know, ninety five or seven, it's about the same probability. So you asked me, what do we do at this trade? My answer is going to be nothing. I mean, I knew my risk when I put it on. I was bullish on the trade somewhat bullish on the trade as a hedge. But what could you do if you wanted to do something? Like, I'm not going to do anything with it. You might decide to do something with it. Again, it's your prerogative. So what could we do on this trade? Let's think about it for a moment. You're long the six forty six fifty call spread, correct? Yep. Stocks trading all the way up at six seventy five. Maybe we look to sell that spread. Let's see what it's trading at before we do it. Okay. Okay, let's go to a trade page. Six forty six fifty call spread. You have to open up a couple more strikes. Because you asked me like, what we can do with it, right? Okay. So forty six fifty call spread is probably going to be trading around eight dollars in change. Let's go. Six forty six fifty trading eight dollars. Let's just round. Okay. Okay. Well, I did this. That's what the risk is. You're long this spread. Yeah. You remember that you're long this spread. So you would have to. Oh, I would sell it back to you. You would sell it back out. Okay. But now you're changing the dynamics. Remember, you could only lose only lose eight hundred and twenty five dollars on the overall position. That takes into it and into account that this is going to ten dollars. So now you're actually going to have two hundred dollars more risk and you're just going to be short a put spread. You're sure, excuse me, you're just going to be short a call spread the six fifty six seventy. Okay. You're getting you're getting out of your call long call and you're just going to be short a call spread. Okay. Maybe we want to roll this spread. Maybe we want to take this spread from December and go to January. Let's keep the spread the way it is. Hold the control key down and buy the six forty six fifty call spread. Do you think this is going to trade for a credit or a debit? Hold on a second. A debit versus why would it trade for debit? Does it so far in the money? Just the opposite reason is going to trade for credit. Let me explain why. Time has value. If I'm going to sell you a house today with this only going to for argument six or you only have to live in for fifteen days, the risk of something happening in fifteen days is going to be less than if I sell you a house for forty five days that you have to live into it and then sell it forty five days later. So that insurance that you're selling is going to be worth a lot more than the insurance that you're buying. Does that make sense? Let's click on selling the six fifty call and you get about a dollar credit for it. Okay. So so far you might say yourself, all right, I'm getting a dollar credit for this. Maybe it's something I might consider doing. Now what you have is you'd be long a call spread in January and short a call spread in December. Let's roll the whole thing. You do six legs so you can't roll the butterfly as one trade. You have to do two separate trades. So you might consider doing this. I'm breaking it up for you. Let's just say that this is for a dollar. It says eighty seven cents but let's just make it a dollar. Okay. Get rid of that and let's go back to December. Yeah. Running out of time ready. And let's buy the six fifty six seventy call spread because that's the one we're short, right? Okay. Okay. Okay. That's trading for almost fourteen dollars. When we go to roll this, do you think you're going to roll it for a debit or a credit? This will be a debit. Perfect. Good for you. That's great. That's awesome. Really. Why? Because I figured you'd definitely get that one wrong. Yeah. Let's go to January. How did I get that one wrong? Well, because the other one was rolled for a credit. Yeah. If you just think in real quickly, you might say, well, that was for a credit. This one must be for a credit. But you're right. It's for a debit. Let's sell the six fifty six seventy. Okay. Just for a debit of $1.33. Let's say you could do the whole thing for a fifty cent debit. Okay. You could roll this whole trade, give yourself more time to be right, and it would cost you about fifty cents. So you can keep this whole trade on. You'd still have that same four hundred dollars loss right now. Realized, unrealized doesn't matter. It's going to be the same exact thing. Pull it to January and you'd have fifty dollars more in risk than you had before. Now me personally, with two weeks to go, I think you have to leave it. What's your break even on the original trade? Go back to the Analyze page for a quick second. My break even point can be right where that red line is. About six hundred and sixty one dollars and seventy five cents to be exact. The short strike plus the credits. The synthetic short strike plus the credit received. So it would be fifty cents less than that, but that would be all the way in January. So you ask like what to do with this trade. There are a few things you can do with it. One would be nothing. With two weeks to go, losing trade, already had a large move, markets at all time highs, certainly can go higher, Amazon's at all time highs, market go higher, Amazon can go lower. I don't know what's going to happen. But I decide to stay in this trade. I knew my risk when I got into it. Maybe ten dollar wide iron con, ten dollar wide embedded short strikes is too wide for your account. Maybe we should stick to five dollar wide ones, which I think is probably the case here. Because the stuff that we make money on, we make a hundred bucks on, I don't want to lose a thousand bucks on one trade. So we may have gotten too big in this trade. My mistake, not yours. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. I mean, would we think about rolling it now or wait until? Well, you'd love to roll it if you were going to roll it when the stock was at $6.60 as opposed to $6.75 or $6.77. Okay. All right. We reviewed that trade pretty good. I want to look at one more trade for you. I want to make a trade. Let's go to Yahoo. We've only got about a minute and a half. So I'm going to go quick on this. We've got out of this. You've got out of this. You've got out of this. You've got out of this. Yeah. Yeah. We're actually going to be sure with a stock up of $7.77. Can you go to a chart of Yahoo. Just real quick. And play volatility. I think it's 63%. 61%. Had a little bit of an uptick in here. Let's go back to Yahoo. We have not been able to get around $1 for any type of strangle that we've been putting on. We've been going a little bit tighter because of how it's always been so low. Perfect. Thank you for reading my mind. Let's look at what we can get here and go for around the 15 delta. Around the 15 delta through the second time is going to be the 40 call. So let's click on the 40 call. And for the sake of time, it's going to be around the 31 put, 30 put, perfect, 31 put. You can get about a dollar. Let's sell this strangle for a dollar. Okay. You can put in for a dollar and leave it. All right. Let's take a quick break to go over what we talked about today. I think we went over the brokowing butterfly in depth. I hope we did in Amazon. What's your decision? What are you going to do with it? I mean, I think we waited out. I mean, we knew going in what the risk was. I hate the idea that we put this on with the stock at 620. Hoping that it goes to 650 and it goes to almost 690 and now we have this talk like, what are we going to do? I mean, we were actually trying to get long Amazon. Yeah. Sometimes it doesn't work. Sometimes it doesn't work. That's correct. And then we looked at the Yahoo strangle that we put on collecting around a dollar. All right. Awesome. Good job, buddy, you're Nicholas. Who comes up next? Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 050 - All About Oil 12 07 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I got the market moving in the direction I wanted to be but uh... equity market moving actually. equity markets but uh... all the commodities are hurting today and that means I'm hurting. Hurting in a big way. I mean you've got the market down, let's just extrapolate out and say it's down 1% the overall market even though I know Russell's almost down 2%, but 1% the S&P 500 and you've got oil down almost 5% 2 and a half dollar move and you know a big move. Big move. Big move everything being relative. Yeah. Let's take a look at your account. You're in your account suffering because of it. Down about $185 down $520 for the year. I know I gave you a homework assignment to look at candidates for a calendar spread. But I want to change that a little bit if I could. Just because of market conditions and what's going on in oil and in your account. Okay. Let's start at the bottom. Not Yahoo but in those X's, XOP, XOM, XLE and if we get to X we'll get there too. Well first thing I look at XOP, you're down $16 for the year, you're down $160 today. So this has been a position we've had on. XOP has had high implied volatility for the last couple of months. We've had on for a couple of months. Rolling, rolling, rolling, doing wonderfully up about $150. Yeah. Probably had about three rolls in there, $50 each time. We were rolling when we were up on the trades. Exactly. And because high implied volatility hard to find every world staying where we are. Okay. So here now you have a problem. Yeah. Got the stock under 32. You short the 36 puts. You short the 39 calls. What's the first with 39 days to go? You're already in Jan. What's the logical thing to do in here? I mean, if it hadn't been such a big move I would say go, you know, roll the calls down to make a straddle. But at this point it's, you know, so much further past my put that we would probably have to get inverted here. Well let's take a look. Let's go to XOP. The question that we're going to look at in XOP is implied volatility rank. You can stay right where you are if you want to and just go down to today's options statistics just to stay on the same page because we already know most of these products are all on or near their lows. You got a current IV percentile of around 35 percent. That's relatively low. Relatively low. Not great. Not bad. Not 10, not 8, not 5, 35, not 50 or above. Okay. So get out of that. Let's open up the Jan options. Okay. So you say that 36 is far away and it is but let's put it into real terms. 36, 17 percent probability of expiring in the money. Or almost 83 percent chance it won't. Yeah. 34 percent chance that we touched there. Not great either. That's right around a standard deviation. So yeah. You are right. And just under 32 dollars might be far away from 36 but that's the real numbers to it. So where could we roll down to if we wanted to. Now two things here. I hate rolling into weakness right now meaning we're rolling down the call side into a down move already but you're heavily weighted into oil and I think you have to get rid of some of your delta risk. Okay. Okay. Maybe rank was high. I'd actually consider probably going maybe even tighter. Since I've you rank is low I got to kind of keep I got to keep a little bit of delta. Yeah. Does that make sense? Okay. Where do you want to roll down to? Well we would go either to I mean to the 32 would be the standard like wouldn't that be where we would go. It's the first one that's out of the money. So what we like to do is we like to reduce delta change return on capital to delta for me if you don't mind. We like to reduce delta by around a third. Okay. Okay. So let's say for argument say even though those 39 calls have a 10 delta let's give them a zero delta. Okay. Because they're just so far out of the money. It says 10 but it's zero. So you have about 80 long delta's. You want to reduce it and I'm just going to the put there. I make it 78 I'm just saying 80. You have about 80 long delta's in here. If I was looking to reduce that by 50 to 30 percent I'd be looking to sell around. That's 33 or the 34. Exactly. 33 34. Okay. Let's let's try to take that delta that I was talking about and let's default to the 34 strike. Okay. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay. Okay. 39 call spread. Okay. Sound good? Yep. Okay. Let's go in and price 80 cents and we can work it later on after the show is over. Beautiful. XOP. Now. Okay. There you go. Filled. Okay. So let's look at. Let's look at a different one now. Let's go into XOM. It's the next one there. Hold on before you go there. XOM you down. $17 a unit date is the first time we've put on a trade in XOM. Yeah. So this is a totally new trade. We're up around $100 on the trade $90 on the trade. You now down $17 on the trade. So this is a completely different kind of mindset for you. Yeah. Do you close this trade? It's basically a wash. You down 17 bucks. Do you close it? Yeah. Hold on. Try to find the answer first. Let's go to the trade page. Okay. Let's let you know you let the market kind of dictate. So it's basically a scratch small loser. Let's look at today's options statistics if I could. I'm sorry, James. Okay. 50% IV rank. Okay. Yeah. It gives me a reason to stay in. Right? Like if I was looking to close one, if it was a scratch, I might have looked to close XOP. Okay. Because IV rank was not. Now, okay. So it gives me a reason to stay in. All right. One check for kind of staying in. Let's open up to position and see what we'll have on. In December, you can change Delta now to position, please. Thank you so much. Okay. So you short the 79 put and you short the 80 call. Stocks, 76,000 change. Now, it sounds like it's so far away, but it was right there yesterday. Yeah. A small uptick and you were looking to close this trade. Yeah. Okay. Well, sometimes it doesn't work out, right? Yeah. Okay. So what do you do now? We would have to probably consider the same thing we did with XOP. Well, in XOP, you had 39 days. How many days do you have in XOM? 11. So it's closer to expiration. So. I mean, like, high IV rank, close to expiration, I think you got to roll it. Okay. So now it comes down to, do I roll just the puts or do I roll both? I mean, you'd probably want to roll both because the IVRs is high for a moment or high at this point. So hold on. So I can close up January from it too. So I'll take a look. Okay. Open up January again. I'm so sorry. Okay. So you want to close again? We'd roll both. So it's taken more premium. I mean, the IVR is high. So. Okay. So you short the 79 put. Uh oh. No 79s. Now what do you do? Um, we probably wouldn't be able to roll down to this 77 and a half for a credit. You certainly could. You certainly could roll down. You're right. You finished your sentence. It was great. Couldn't roll down for a credit, but you're taking out 79. You're taking out a buck and a half. So you probably could roll for a small credit. Remember, you have the 79 strike. So it's 77 and a half. That's a dollar and a half difference. If you roll for anything more than a buck and a half, you're actually doing it for a slight credit. Okay. Does that make sense? Just because of where the stock is right now or no, you have the 79 strike. Remember all the options are contracts. So if somebody has the right to buy it from you at, I'm sorry, sell it to you at 79 because you're sure to put. Now you're rolling down to 77 and a half. You're changing your contract. You're changing your contract by a dollar and a half. If you collect $2 in credit, then you've changed your contract still by the same dollar and a half, but you've collected 50 cents in extra, 50 cents of premium for going. Okay. So it's giving me that much more room above what the actual change. Your original trade. Okay. All right, so hold on one second. Since you want to roll both sides and I kind of agree with you, why don't we roll to the 80 instead of the 77 and a half? Like let's play, oils at an all time low. Is it going to go lower? I don't know. Yeah, maybe I can't, but I want to keep the delta risk. So my decision, again, I'm just going to my thought process. High implied volatility rank. I mean, I'm in December. I'm going to roll to January. Uh-oh, I'd roll exactly the same strikes. I can't. All right, let's roll to the 80s and then sell the 80 call. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. All right, let's do the 80 roll first. So let's do the... Actually, probably it doesn't really make a difference. Okay, buy the 79 put, sell the 80 put. You could do this all as one trade. Let's do it all as one trade. You'll just hold down the control key. You'll buy back the 80 call because you could do four legs at one time. Again, just holding down the control key to add all these different strikes and we'll sell the 80 call. So you're doing the whole thing for a $2.35 and credit, which is really like a $1.35 credit because you're changing the strikes. Okay. Yeah. Okay, let's go into 237 and we'll see what happens. If it doesn't matter, 670. Again, as the stock moves, if the stock rallies a little bit, you're going to get filled. Stock goes low, you won't get filled. Okay, so that's what you're doing in, uh, that was XOM, right? Yeah. Okay, let's get to, uh, we have about three, four minutes. Let's go to XL, what do you got in XLE? Uh, an Iron Condor. Iron Condor, it worked down, we're up about 40 bucks. Yeah. God, you are stinking magic in winners. You just didn't reach that 50%. Yeah. Okay. Um, let's see what you got. You got $3 wide iron condor. Uh, ooh, I look at this. The calls are basically worthless. Stocks down $3 today. You can see how everything was like right there in the middle. You just didn't get the move that we needed today. Okay, what do you think about here? Before you think of anything. Rolling the calls down would be the first, the call sound. 11 days to go. Yeah. 11 days to go, you're not going to be able to roll anything down for any type of, of premium. But I mean, we, uh, this one we wouldn't roll out to the next month. I mean, cause it's, it's defined risk, Iron Condor. I mean, you're, you're 100% correct. You could certainly, okay, so now that's excellent. So now, so now hear me out. You just roll two, I was actually, my, I wrote down my paper. I wrote down, um, rolled down the same put strike, roll the same put strikes to, to January. And then maybe roll down the call spread. I like what you just said. Okay. So yeah, you know, I try to think like how you're going to think when we, when we do show. But I like we just did. Think about it. Those last two trades, oil related. Now, XOP and XOM cannot accommodate us for the roles that we just did. And XLE can go the opposite direction. If we rolled XLE, that would have been better for us. We don't know, but we just rolled two products, which are oil related, which reduced some of your delta, cause you sold more premium. And now you're saying, you know what, does it define risk trade? I think I'm just going to sit with it. It's kind of a good, like, it goes, it goes with everything that we try to do on the show. We try to reduce by a third our directional risk. We try to roll for a third of our delta risk. We never, I don't want to say the word hedge, cause people get so crazy when I say hedge. We never try to change our position dramatically by either moving a spread down or rolling to the next month. We try to do it in small steps. Okay. So I mean, this, this one we're just going to stick out then. I like it. I'm going to play out. I like it. I like it a lot. I think that's, I think that's great. What about X? Well, you ran out of time, which is actually very convenient for me, because it's really, if you take a look at X, there's really nothing to sell against this. Yeah. It's tough one. We haven't had enough taking that since we put that trade on. It's been a tough one. All right. Let's take a quick break here just to go over everything we talked about today. One of the most frustrating days for your account, if I was you, this would be very frustrating. Looking for a down move in the market, you get a 1% down move in the market. You get a move in oil that's three or four times as great as that. It basically sinks all of the returns you have. It's one of the most, it happens. It happens a couple of times, probably every month, usually not to this magnitude, but it's one of the most frustrating days in the world. So what did you do? It was all about oil today. You took a look at your oil position and you rolled, I think, better than I would have rolled. Wow. I need that. I'm like a loop. I'm going to keep that my desk. Well, you had a little more time to look at your position. I don't want to do anything you do. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Good work, Adiou. Peace.
Video: 051 - What Is Vega 12 11 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you for back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat? How are you son? Do it okay. Are you sure? Yeah. Well let's think of a good account. Not as good as the ones yesterday but. Down $110. I think we're down around $200 at one time right? Yeah. 15 down 15 bucks. James on that right computer there all the way on your right. If you go that gray box and it has bat and then you can switch that and there you go. Square that back out. Perfect. Okay. So you're down $111. We're down around $200 bucks. Even the S&P is still down 32. I know they were a little bit lower down about 38 or something like that at one point. You came in, well let me set this up this way because I have a slide that I made for you and then we have a couple of trades that I want to talk about. So since we're here let's just go to your field orders for a quick second. Okay. It looks like AL American Airlines bought a put spread $2.00 wife for about $1.95. Yeah. It looks like you closed it for $1.32. You made 30, was it 35 cents out of a possible $105 in five or six days. The beauty of that is what was our whole thesis? Go to a chart of Foreslash CL for a moment. What was our whole thesis? Our whole thesis was. Yeah, we were using it as like a hedge so to speak against our long- Well, another complimentary trade. Oil was trading about $41 right before it broke. Go a little bit more like 12 fours the date. Yeah. Two more right there. So oil trading 12 four making new lows. Our thought is want to be a little bit bullish on oil. Don't want to put on any more oil trades. Go to AAL. AAL was trading high. We're thinking that if oil goes higher, AAL should go lower. Well, first day went higher and then the next three or four days it goes lower. Oil's gone lower completely wrong with our thesis and our setup of the trade. But what did we do? Low, low implied volatility, bought a debit spread, got the direction we want. I mean, like why wait? Like for the other $65, you know, why wait? Make sense? And the volatility is really what made that spread trade for what we were able to get for it. Perfect. Perfect. Good. Yeah. Alright, let's go back to your trade page for a moment. Alright, so you're down about $110 today. $126 now. Is that a lot or a little for today? I would say that's about average of our account swings. Okay, that's true. And as long as you're basing on that, I say, okay, that's good. Let me, let me, let me teach you how to really quantify it because there's no way you could have answered that question without some knowledge about Vega. Now Vega is that short 190 Vega, which is about what you've had. It's the same Vega you had yesterday, I believe. We'll get to the slide a minute. Vega is how much your account will move on a 1% volatility move. Now a 1 point volatility move. Volatility forward slash VX if you want to go trade page for a moment has moved, well, just about 4 points, 3 and a half points. There you go, 3 and a half points. Let's just for the sake of argument say that it's just about 20% 4 points, okay? Alright, so volatility has moved 4 points. Your rate of change should have been 4 times. So 800 bucks. Almost, let's go to the slide that I have there. And I made the team did this for me and that's pretty awesome. So on 12 times, which is just yesterday, your SPY weighted delta was 90. Your Vega was 180. Today you got a VIX increasing by almost $4 again. We're just rounding and you can work the numbers however you want. You should be down around $720 on just pure volatility. Now let's take that out for a moment too. Be beta weighted your adultus to SPY. That's a snapshot at that point. Over time, called a year, that number is going to be a lot closer or should be a lot closer to $720. Now, if you have a position on in say gold and gold volatility has an expanded SPY volatility has expanded, you can't take that. That's hard to do. But you have to have something to judge it against. Alright. So all things being equal, let's just say that your account should be down around $500. Instead of $720 or $400. But it's down to $100 or $200. It's down half as much because of that short delta and the nature of the positions that you put on selling premium time decay. Let's go to the next slide and then we can go to tree one. So just keep in mind that Vega is not beta weighted as far as I just went and told you. This means the airline would not have their individual volatility expand at the same rate. You have to have something like you took something and said, well, that's about what my account do move, but you have had your account move see some of our books for the day. You have both ways pretty much. And lower too. I mean, that seems like my range is a hundred bucks. But how many 35 point E-Mini S&P days have you had where your account moved a hundred bucks? Not many. Yeah, I would say this is the only one. Right. You got to put it on perspective and that's how you, I mean, that's how you use Vega. Like it's a number to show you like what you should be doing. And then what your account does is how good you applied all the entry strategies. Okay. And the direction that that that goes, I mean, I got it. But that's why that's why you got to carry a little bit of short delta when your short Vega, because those 90 delta's helped you for a point or two. Yeah. And the volatility. Okay. If you came in long, you might be, you might be down that five. Yeah, it's a close to that. Yeah. Makes sense? Yeah. Alright, let's go back to the account statement page for just a quick second. And let's beta weight your position. Alright, so your long four delta's now. So we got to do something, which is okay, right? I mean, E-Mini S&P's are down what a hundred points in the last week or two, we're going to have for something like that. It's okay to be short, now be neutral. I look at it as, you know, if I'm, if I have a 200 short Vega and I have a flat delta, I'm a little long. So I look at your account and I say, okay, where can I pick up a little bit of short delta or some premium since volatility is expanded. Let's look at IWM, which is a trade that we've been looking at for a long time. You have a J-delizard on in December that was basically a full loser. Now you've got, you've got things to do. You're short the 14, 15 call spread and you're short the 11 puts. You're using $2,200 in buying power, which I think is not fair. You're using about $1,000 worth of buying power on that because you have a position in January too. Yeah. So let's just say you're using $1,000 worth of buying power. Let's see if we can even up the buying power, but maybe just change the position ever so slightly. Okay. And roll it at the same time. Okay. So we don't have to do. What would be the first thing you would do? Well, we'd roll the calls first. No. The 14, 15 call spread? It's right at the money. Well, it's $1,12. It's $2 out of the money, right? Right. Okay, but that's going to, it's a $1 wide call spread. Okay. In a violent move, how much are you going to move? Two cents. Okay. So that's like the least about problem. All right. The put, the 111 put, over the 99 put, that 99 puts not going to be good. We're going to help you at all. That's just to use less buying power. And we probably won't even be able to roll that. You're not going to roll it at all. What we're going to do is we're going to take that 111 put and roll it from December to January. Remember what we have? Biotilles expanded it is actually up four points right now, trading up $23.33 and 33 cents that's four-slag VX. So we're going to roll that put to January, try to do it and give us a little bit of positive delta. I'll show you how we'll do that. We'll roll it all too. Okay. And then- So some more premium. Yeah, and keep the- No, we buy back that 14, 15 calls per-who needs that stupid spread for 29 cents. If you wanted to keep it, you could. Okay. Decide with that later. Like there's no rush. Okay. All right. Okay. All right. So let's go into IWM. And remember, you're long about six deltas in IWM right now. We'll see what happens when we roll everything. Okay. So let's open up the desorptions. We're trading for about $1.33, $1.34. Let's click on buying one of those because that's where short. Okay. And let's now open up the January options. All right. Now stop from it. Now we could go to the 11 strike, right? That's what we have now, right? IWM? Yeah. Let me just make sure. Yeah. We could go to 11. Remember I told you I wanted to pick up a little bit of short delta. I'm not going to pick up any short delta by rolling it to January. So pick up some premium about $1.50 premium. But I'm not going to pick up any, I'm going to be just as long in IWM. So why don't we take that since it's trading for around $1.34. Why don't we sell the 106 put that's trading for about $1.35? We're going to do it for a scratch essentially. You're doing it basically for even. No premium, but I'm going to sell the call, which is going to give me my short delta. Okay. So I'm keeping the premium the same. Yeah. A lot less Vega risk. Okay. My Vega is actually going to go down in the position. I'm giving myself a higher probability of success. Change the Theo price on that or just make it to tasty trade. It's around a 30 delta. Let's see the 106 is about a 25, 27 probability of being in the money, which is a put that we normally would like to sell if we were getting long. Do you see what I'm trying to do here? I'm trying to take like what we have roll out for duration, sell more premium and sell more premium in the calls to. Okay. So let's look on sell in the 106 puts. And that's basically trading for even or a debit. And hold on one second. I wanted to sell a call to get some short delta, right? Mm-hmm. Does it make sense so far? Yeah. Okay. So let's look to, well, what call do you want to sell? Well, I mean, if we went anything, S and P's dealt 37 now. Well, if we went any higher than like the 115, we would not get any delta. It would be a neutral delta trade. If you wanted to get short delta, we'd have to go closer to the money to add the money. Remember, you have long delta and IWM now. So just by rolling it, you're going to get yourself some short delta. You're going to pick up about 15 short delta just by, well, you're going to pick up about about seven short delta just by rolling it down to where you are. Okay. And then the 15 strike is about what you want. 15, 16, if you wanted to, you know, play a little bit of neutrality. Okay. Do you recall? All right. Then let's go in on at the 15. Okay. Perfect. Now you can do the whole thing for $1.27 credit. Is that work for you? When we have to buy a wing on the call or... Oh, we're going to have to buy a wing on the put and a wing on the call, but we'll get to that in a moment. Okay. Sound good? Yeah. Let me see if I can do that. I'll give you a few. Okay. I'll go in and do that. I'll give you a 20 and you can change it. Cool. Take it from Sensen. Okay. All right. So now we... Let's... I want to get filled on it. Can we just go to the trade page and go down? I want to show you how much your... Your IWM delta is actually 12 right now. We'll see how much it changes. If you can. I'm sorry. I almost ran out of time. All right. While James does that for us, just move it down to Penny. If you can remember, if you can do it, if you can't. Running out of time. Time, time, time. And I know Tim would love to have a... Oh, there it is. Perfect. So you got full... So you just went to a little bit of short 20 delta from long 6 to 10 delta. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Sound good? All right. Good. Let's go to XOM real quick and then we're done. Trade page I apologize. So XOM is down about $2.00. No, it's down about $1.00. About $0.96 or something. Down 90 cents. Let's go to this. Let's go to this. So perhaps a January options. So do you stay at the 80s or do you go down to the 77 halves? Oils down $1.15 today. For a fall. Yep. I mean, I don't know. We've got time. So why wouldn't we just stay with it? Perfect. End of conversation. Cool. Good job, Adieu. Can you two? Let's take a quick second and go over what we talked about today. I thought we did a nice job of explaining Vega and the expectation of what your account should have done, all things being equal. And today with a huge volatility move, almost 21% $4 on FOTESLASH VX, just to show you the power of a good setup on entry, which is the only thing that you can control. Good job, Adieu today. Good job, Adieu, too. Who comes up next? Tim Knight, next. What I normally say. Peace. Peace.
Video: 052 - Nick S Pick Qcom 12 14 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back. Where do I start that versus bat? How you doing son good got a little off 75 cents So that helps me a lot, but overall markets on change. So that's good as well Look at what look at what you become. I know right. It's pretty cool. Isn't it? I love it It's not so bad. I think about it all day and I'm looking at the markets looking at my my tickers go up and down I love it Lord help us if you ever start making money. Let's take your account. It'll be no stop and yeah See it looks like you're making up about 23 bucks today. You were up a little bit more early. You were down About 150 bucks when volatility was trading about two dollars higher and the market was right about where it is right now Yeah, you know up small to unchange the many S&P's up $3 Dow up 26 oil like you said help us a little bit up 78 cents. That's XOM is helping you But you're not really getting any relief from XOP with it. Let's bait what you position for a moment XOP down 71 cents you were hope that that would rally with oil to you and I can't help from X which is also Closed out for just quick second. All right, so you're short 11 total deltas. Why do you think you're making money today? Because my account's not being I mean like my deltas are neutral So but the market hasn't done anything so all things being equal you should probably be wrapped around unchanged Well, you make it money twofold one time premium going by that said 61 or 62 dollars in theta decay You have and then a little bit of volatility Contractions so you've got some stocks like Amazon, which is up $12 your tiny short Amazon because you've got you know 30 days left to go To 32 days left to go to expiration. So you're you're synthetically short the 66670 call spread But it doesn't move that much because the stock is like I said 32 days away But you can have some winning trades some losing trades really it's your theta decay with the market being unchanged and then the volatility Maybe on Friday you as you never know when volatility's gonna come out But maybe when we were trading on Friday, which is very hard for people to understand conceptually, but on Friday Everybody who makes markets knows that the weekend is coming So on Friday morning when you're a market maker as I was an ex-market maker if you're going to Make a market you're synthetically in your head saying it's Saturday night like clothes of Saturday if we were to trade on Saturday I'm not gonna make my markets with with three days of theta decay I want to make my market with a day and a half of theta decay and the first time somebody sells me something I'm trading on Sundays Numbers, okay, and if the next orders come in as sell orders. I'm trading on Mondays orders right at Friday at 10 o'clock in the morning So you're factoring those days into the price because I mean you know they're coming I know they're coming so do it now when you have buyers of options Friday comes I make a market we don't know what the paper float is gonna be like if the first couple orders of Buy orders I will have a sudden go from Saturday afternoon to Saturday morning. I get some more buyers Okay, now I'm not Saturday morning anymore. I'm Friday on the clothes even though it's it's 8.30 or 9 o'clock in the morning In Chicago the market's only been open a half an hour. I keep getting more buy orders Well now I'm trading real-time Friday at 9 o'clock and I might raise volatility So you never know when that's gonna happen. It's my assumption that I think a lot of volatility didn't come out Over the weekend and I actually think it's gonna stay bit a little bit longer although volatility is down now about a dollar 15 Was up about bucking a half earlier today and by stay bid you mean like the the prices are gonna I mean like you're gonna contract the market if with an unchanged market what you have now even the S&P's down a dollar and a quarter NASDAQ up six Russell down eight dollar 18 with an unchanged market. I think you have volatility staying kind of bit Makes sense. I feel like it's we're set. Right? Yeah, yeah, okay, you never know all right Let's take a look at something. Let's go to Disney. Have you traded Disney yet? No, no Disney's been a fan favorite of Tom and I'm sure you guys talk about Disney all the time. I feel like we do it It's had typically high implied volatility. It has high volatility now some of the hires that we've seen Over the last six months or so. It's got a 60% IV rank stock sold off a little bit now We were bearish on the stock. I mean full disclosure. We've been bearish on the stock since it was a hundred You know on its way to 120 now it's back down to a hundred and nine. So it's about mid range I was thinking about doing just a straight you don't have a lot of premium In your account that we have I was thinking about maybe just selling a straight strangle in there. Okay, I won't take a look Yeah, maybe I'll decide to do a Stratdle. I don't know all right. Let's go into January 32 days to go If we want to do a chain. Thank you Change the taste trade all we do is put a return on capital probably one in the money if you wanted to Sell a strangle what would be the strikes you would look at if you're doing a classic strangle the way that you've been Kind of talk where do your eyes go to 95 and then like the 120 perfect Absolutely perfect another 120's not exactly 15 delta. It's actually a little bit less but yeah So they are of our exactly 15 delta, but that's nothing ever that's usually how it's gonna be That's about how it is Yeah, but you're almost equal distance away a buck or so off. Yeah, completely neutral trade dollar 36 is the mid price It's actually come down a little bit earlier today. I was looking at around a dollar 38 mid price. Okay Could you bring that in tighter that we confirm it's in one time for me. I think you's about thousand dollars Yeah, about a thousand dollars in buying power. Okay Can we take one can we take a look at something a little bit more since I've even rank is so high? Okay, let's add that for a moment We don't do a lot of strangle straddles, but you want to do kind of like a As close to a straddle as you can get without being a straddle what I'm talking about is selling 105 110 that's correct Look at this I'm finishing your sentences now eerie. Yeah, it's it's come full circle Not yet. I won't I won't take that crown yet Crown Yeah, you're the king you got yeah, but you got a long way to go before you can have a come up this mountain Yeah, of course all right, so you got you got the one ten 105 what do you think? Slot more credit. Yes, what would be your exit strategy on this all things being equal 25% I mean just to take the money and run Right, let's confirm it's in one time to see how much money you're using Using a little bit more using almost two thousand dollars in buying power Okay, what am I at on my account right now? 21 grand how come I know you don't I'm going to look at it right now I want to count to look at all right, so you tell me you're engaged when I have not how much buying power using Just double check in all right, okay, so what do you think? Um? I like it. I mean, I always love selling premium. I like getting that do you like the extra risk? Yeah, okay? Let's do it all right. All right sounds good to me It's what the ordering beautiful you can move it plenty of two later ones. We get off the show cool There you go. You work in 584 you might have to move a two cents to get filled all right Maybe I'll totally expand a little bit of the mark goes a little bit lower. We'll see what happens You may as please down 75 cents now one of the another trade that we talked about Putting on but never did Qualcomm cool you mentioned it to me. Yeah, I had actually forgotten about it full disclosure I don't have a position in Qualcomm traded down to below 46 dollars 45 dollars and 93 cents volatility is actually higher on a percentage basis 87% IV rank Then in Disney lower price stock gives us a lot of options meaning a lot of different strategies to do Stocks down over 11% you have a neutral portfolio. You just put on a neutral position In Disney. What do you want to do in Qualcomm go to Qualcomm trade page? I mean we could go You know same strategy you go with the string goal. I was looking and can't do You're ready to distract you use two thousand dollars and you have 23,000 dollars of a 30,000 dollar account and we do have 32 days to go to expiration So you are getting you know longer in the tooth and expiration which is good 45 days being the maximum You'll probably stay in January till about 20 or 22 days left expiration And then we'll start looking to roll trades and stuff and hopefully we'll take some trades off That'll free up some buying power, but you can't really afford to do a strangle You're about it your max you're actually a little over your max, but about till is at a high So I mean in my eyes it justified So change that you can't do a strangle. What would you do next? I mean we could do a put spread You're only a little bit long you could go put spread You can stay neutral and do an iron condor an iron condor you could do a Jade lizard a Jade lizard doesn't look like and again All I'm doing is just here's the stock. It's 46. Let's make it 46 and a half So there are no 46 and a half calls and puts but let's just look so the 46 puts are trading for about a dollar 70 The 47 calls are trading for a dollar 80. There's no volatility skew between the two of them go another strike out the 48 calls Trading about a dollar 40 go to the 45 puts they're trading for around a dollar 30. So there's no volatility skew one way or the other A ratio spread I'd want to do if I saw a volatility skew. Okay, so there's no volatility skew there but volatile There's high. So if you wanted to you could but I prefer to do it when I see like a skew to one side or the other Okay, so let's kind of rule that out all right, so you got a naked put totally works if you're bullish chunk Qualcomm Do you know what Qualcomm does? They're like a wireless technology. That's pretty good. I mean there It's a tech company. Okay, I mean right. I'm just good at dancing. I don't tell you the gods. Yeah. Okay. I would give a similar answer Okay, I know it's times worse stock really one of one of the worst. Yeah, I think he's actually one of our best Right to be good. I think he's actually to business self to trade it. Okay Okay, so you can sell a put if you were going classic You would probably look to go right around that 30% probability like somewhere around the 44 Collect around a dollar Is that correct? Yeah, okay You want to collect another 30 somewhat sense and maybe maybe Increase your probability of success ever so slightly sure you can look to sell the 48 49 calls bred to I mean only this cares about this stock is it already traded under 46 dollars today Okay, I mean it doesn't mean anything. Yeah Oh, and you're saying that okay, so it's Yeah, well hit confirm and send one. Yeah, it's up a little bit today Up from it's low Bring us down to below $43 that would be a new low on the stock. Yeah, I don't know $700 in buying power very similar to the naked put You know listen, it's six of one half dozen of another. It's not the extra 30 cents is probably You know not gonna change your life that much My my babel by your dinner though And now you start it now you start to sound like you come on maybe you are learning don't forget Yeah, 30 bucks that would be like if you ever learn how to pay your own sellbook Oh, yeah, yeah Timon that's 300 there you go Uh-huh, that's pretty good. What do you think? Yeah, okay, you want to do Jade lizard? Uh-huh, that's my man So bad Says money what do I care? Yeah, all right sounds good Let's take a quick break here and and just go over what we did today. All right, so we looked at um We looked at selling premium and disney you opted to um To go a little bit tighter collect a lot more premium and then manage that at a 25% of possible profit as opposed to the typical 50% of possible profit Since we had a couple extra moments we went into Qualcomm a stock that I told you I wanted to get long Probably two dollars higher. Yeah, and we're at training right right now And then I got a scared I got a scared of selling a naked put and I made you sell another call for an extra 30 cents Approximately 30 cents Just to increase your probably success ever so slightly Good job out of you today. No good job out of you. I know right really really are learning What do we get filled on you just got filled on your Qualcomm cool Oh, you're dead comes up next you got Tim night next peace peace
Video: 053 - Efficient Use Of Buying Power 12 18 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Hey, come back. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat? How are you son? Feels good to be up. Doesn't it though? Yeah. Let's take a look at your account real quick. I have a bunch of stuff I want to talk about or at least try to get to today. Okay. Okay. Great works. Got a new guy running the driver there today. So he has a beta-weighted too, which is good. So you can leave it all together. The holiday party last night, you know, through things off a little bit today. It did. Okay. So we're beta-weighted long six deltas. You've been assured it was about 150 so far this cycle. And long right around here, around 7 to 10 deltas. You're up about $183 today. You got $510, $497 in profit. Pretty nice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a good start. We got it. You've been down for four months now. You finally up and you know, it's just a yeah, right? You expect it. I do. I do. You should expect it. I mean, that's a good thing. I expect it to continue to grow. I mean, like, I'm confident doing this. I think that you should get slapped on your very next trade. Probably. So let's open up the field orders for a moment. Okay. So let's look at what you did here. In X, you rolled your January puts to February. We talked about that yesterday. X was up about $57 cents. It's up $57 cents right now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It hit $8 bucks this morning and so we rolled that into strength. $8,000 and that's significant. So we rolled into a week. Yes. We rolled into a week. Yes. We rolled into a week. Which is something that we hate to do. But you know, you had to pick up some sort of premium. We open new positions. We kept our calls in January and open new ones in February. But we did do that on a down day, which is something we would want to do. That's correct. So now you've got an extra two lot. Can you close up the field orders and go down to X on the trade page for right there. I'm sorry. Thank you. You've got an extra two lot of calls here. Two of the Jan 10 calls. Right? Yeah. Okay. Do you keep those or do you close those? You keep those. Okay. Okay. I mean, it's an $8 stock. I hate having, you know, short 24 cent calls with 28 days to go. It seems like it can only, you know, bite me in the in the butt. But if I, if that was an $8 stock and they were 24, $2,040 cent calls. I'm just multiplying everything by 10. I'd probably keep them. Okay. So I'll say, okay, we keep them. All right. Okay, but I'll be looking, I'll be looking to aggressively close them. Yeah. I got down to a dime or 12 cents or actually roll them from January. If we get a rally, we will roll those from January to February. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Sound good? It'll be a high class problem. Yeah. That's what we need to tap and so. That's correct. Your neutral knalk, you unbeat away that. I think you're short about 10 deltas, but it's really like your, yes, your short 10 deltas next, but it's really like your long. You're, you're getting, let's see what the delta is on those Jan 10 calls. Let me take a look. 45? No. No, there's going to be something like 15 or something like that. Let's take a look. The Jan 10 calls are about a 15 delta. So it's short two of those. You're getting 30 short deltas from an option that's trading at 24 cents. That's $2 out of the money. So I look at this like almost fake deltas. You know what I mean? So I mean, I look at this, this position and your Greeks say your short 10 deltas, you're going to benefit from an up move. Yeah. Because those 10 calls will not move. They'll move two, three cents, eight cents, 10 cents on the dollar move. So. Okay. Okay. Sound good? All right. Next, what's the other thing you did? I think in SPY. Yeah. We close out of the shorts. All right. So in SPY, you were short. Thank you. SPY, you were short. The 201 call. Look where SPY is right now. It's 201. It's down $3.70. You were short to 201 call and the 198 put. 28 days to go. Still plenty of time to go. Still plenty of time to keep that position on. Go to a chart of SPY if you could. You'll notice an SPY. Had this position on I think since September. Yeah. I don't see volatility is contracted in X2. So that's helped you on your position too. Yeah. It hasn't been down to 201 again. Four or five days ago it was down to 201. But besides that, you're looking at early 11.9 right around 11.9. And then before that, September, October. So you've had this position on rolling it all this time. All we decided to do, collecting less premium, is buy back those. The 201 call, the 198 put, which is closer at the money by those back. And just sell something that's right around that standard deviation, that 30% probability of being out of my equal everything out. So you're not quite as... neutralizes the delta. It neutralizes the delta. It gives you a higher probability of success. But you collect less premium. You did that for a credit of $3.69. Excuse me, a debit of $3.69. Now, you may have been able to do that same trade two days ago. At $5.69, debit. Because your 201 call was so deep in the money when the stock was trading at like 207 or something like that. Okay? So all you're doing is kind of flattening out your risk curve in SPY. But it also gets you a little bit less short. So we should probably add some shorts. Probably, but here's my quandary. Now I've got the market trading down 17 handles, down, 200 and change. You've had short delta. I just showed you a portfolio. You're basically dealt a neutral. I have a hard time adding shorts right here. Go to forward slash VX for one moment. Right, take a sip of your. So volatility has not expanded as much as it has when we were looking at that FOMC meeting. But it's still relatively high, right? Yeah. It's about... It's about... Why don't we play... Why don't we play the struggle into the end of the year? As opposed to going with our direction. If we rally, we'll let them have it. Okay. If we go down, we won't buy as aggressively. If we stay sideways, we'll benefit greatly from it. Okay. Alright, so let's look at something like, well, do you want to stay in SPY or do you want to go into Apple? I'm going to do both, but which one do you want to go to first? Well, let's go to Apple. Let's go to Apple. We have SPY already. Okay, AAPL. Just stay right there for a moment. Has earnings after expiration? We've had about a 10% move down in the last 10 days. Our research shows that could give us a little bit of a bounce. Now, here's a bullish play. I mean, a little bit more of a bullish setup, down 10%. We made a trade in Apple, I think, on the 17th that we... Yeah. We closed the next day. It was on Tuesday. Maybe the 16th. Hold on one second. Yeah, you got a bad screen up there. There we go. It's getting a little bit. There we go. Alright, every time you move the mouse, it puts down the drinks baller. It takes a lot of screen. On the 15th, we sold a strangle for $1.62. On the 16th, we bought it back for $1.20. On the 16th, the IV rank was up around this 30%. Again, I made the argument that it's high relative. If you throw out that one big spike back on August 17th, there's only a handful of days over the last year. I forget what the exact number was, but I think out of the 250 some odd days there are to the trading year. It was like something like, this is the highest volatility in like 210 days or something like that. I can care about the exact number. Okay. Alright, so let's look at a neutral play in Apple. Maybe slightly bullish. Let's go into the trade page. Let's open up January options in Apple. Apple can't seem to buy an uptake. Let's go to 40 strikes because they're real small. The strikes with that dividend that it had. Let's look at the 150, let's look at the 100 puts. Stop for one minute. 100 puts everywhere. 25% probability of being in the money. Alright, let's click on selling one of the 100 puts. Let's go up to the 115 call. So you're about six points below and nine points higher. Playing it just slightly bullish. The 115 calls are trading for around 59.60 cents. You're a 13% probability. So you've got a little bit of long delta war. You keep it completely neutral. I'm only playing the whole 10% down thing. Yeah. That's all I'm doing here. Dollar eighty seven mid price. What do you think? I think that's good. I mean, it's how do you feel about Apple? I mean, I like Apple. Go down to leave the call right where it is. Go down to the puts and see which one is 15%. Make it completely neutral. Keep going. Keep going. Stay right there. Alright, you can sell the ninth. Stay right there. Change the 100 put on the trade to the 95 71 put. Okay, buck 35, which one you like better? We're not giving up a whole lot of credit. There are a whole lot of credit for that, you know, about 50 cents for that extra space. This is private. This is a one standard deviant strangle. That's correct. I mean, mechanically, wouldn't this be the one to go to? Mechanically this would be the one to go to. Maybe a strike in closer would be my thing. Alright, let's go strike in closer. Alright, he's on the puts. Let's go to 87 and change. No on the trade. It's like working with Helen Keller over there. 87, yeah. The other way. Other way. I'm sorry, 90, 97. 97. 97, 14. Yeah. Okay. That was good. And the call. Let's bring it down just a little bit. We gotta go to the call feed. Yeah. Yippur. Okay, let's go to that from from from from. 14, 29, okay. Or one 1357 probably. For 160. 171 mid price. 172. Alright, is he able to write a thing in there? I can't tell. 1357. Uh huh. Does that sound good? Yeah, what it? So we moved it a little bit, right? Yeah. You just winded by a striker too. Yeah, let's go back to the 115. Yeah, Torchroom, sure. Yeah, very, very. One 15. Perfect. Anyone who put 150 leave the put. Boom. That's it. That's what you sure? Yeah. Okay. Click it. Let's go into $1.50, hit Confirm and send and send. Use it about $1,200 worth of buying power. Alright, that only took an hour. Go to SPY for a moment. Since you just took off some long delta, some short delta in SPY, I want to look at something else in there. And just for the sake of argument and to save some time because we only got about three minutes left. I was looking at a very similar trade as the one you put on, but using an iron condor. But a very wide iron condor at a standard deviation. So all we're doing is we're taking this risk where volatility is at a high at an extreme, and that in a high extreme it had been just a few days ago. I don't know if it's going to get any higher or go any lower. So I'm playing kind of like middle of the road. Instead of keeping my premium in the middle where the stock is now, where the premium would be the fattest and I would have the most directional risk, I'm trying to widen out my, my strikes widen out my strikes to give me a better sweet spot in SPY. Okay. Okay. You're going to be using about $2,000 more in buying power. Let's look to sell. You want to do the put side first. Let's look to sell the 185 puts and by the 163 put, we're already short, we're already long on them. I'm just adding another one at the same strike that you're already long. It's trading for around 10 cents or something like that. And then on the call side, you'll have to hold down the control key, sell the 210 call and by the 163 call. I'm sorry, the 219 call. I apologize, my fault that time. And I'm just picking that one because we're already long that one. It's just adding to the same one a 201 credit. So instead of going from a 369 debit that you had in SPY, I'm lowering that by about a dollar to 269. And I'm keeping my, I'm widening out our range of possible profit. Okay. Sound good? Cool. Also going to make you use $2,000 more in BIPER. Let's go in. It's up to like 25,000 in buying power. That's correct. Where you were, hit Confirmance Center, thank you. Where you were just a few days ago when we neutralized a lot of this, just got filled at $1 on the SPY. You're not got filled in. And then you just got filled in Apple. $1.50. Nice. Very nice. Yeah, it's good stuff. Yeah. Let's go look at how much buying power you're using so we don't have to guess. While we go to that, let's take a quick close out one. Perfect. You're right. 26,000 miles. Where we were just a few days ago. So come Monday, our thinking is going to be how do we reduce that buying power? Either buying a wing somewhere in Apple or looking at some of the other positions you have. Either closing something or adding some wings. Okay. Let's take a quick break and just talk about what we did here. What we looking at using our buying power as efficiently as possible, ramping up our buying power because volatility has expanded today and playing with house money because now you're up money. Oh, it's great. Feels good, doesn't it? Let's keep it going. These trades will probably take you down. I'm just kidding. Good job out of you. Yeah. Not really. You've come a long way. I think so. No, it's great. 2016 is going to be awesome here. It is going to be an awesome year. Who comes up next? Bye. Bye.
Video: 054 - Rolling For Duration But Staying Long Oil 12 21 2015.mp3
Transcript:  We're back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat. How are you son? Great day. You sure are having a great day. Let's take a look at your account. Even though the E-Mini SMPs are up 950, we don't typically talk about how it's a great day. You're up $367 in your account. The majority of this is just from theta contraction. You're up about $850 for the year. It's Christmas miracle. Yeah. I can afford some presents. What do you want? You're buying? Yeah. I'm buying. Very good. Do you remember what your beta-weighted Delta was yesterday? On Friday. On Friday. We were in the 160s, believe? No. No. You can click it. You were long about 15 Delta's. And remember we decided to sell two call spreads in the diamonds because it was one of a few places where you had positive Delta and ETF. We actually sold that call spread like 94 cents. That same call spread down the money call spread that we sold on Friday with the diamonds up almost 100 points. Actually, Ford slash YM is up 55 points right now. But earlier in the day, that spread was unchanged actually down a couple of pennies. That just shows you how much volatility contracted. Even though you got the move up that you would not want, it was nice protection for you. And you're still long about 14, 15 Delta's in your account. Why? How could that be? Like as we took off the Disney trade, but that was... Neutral trade. Neutral trade. Which by the way, open up the Disney trade. It's a really nice winner. He closed it at 462. You made about $119 on the overall trade. In a week. In a week. If we waited, you make another 35 or 40 bucks. Yeah. Who knew? But a great trade. You were worried about Disney going at 200. Yeah. It stuck on the 110. Yeah. Played goodbye. No. It stucked in on you. OK. So why would you Delta remain the same, even though everything is half a percentage point higher? It's just volatility contraction. Options are dynamic. Their deltas are always going to change and they'll change with volatility. Oh, it's an apple. Oh, you did. You just got to fill an apple. Nice. You just got to fill it 102. Sold that at a buck 50. Yeah. One or two? I think a buck 50. That's fine. So you made 50 cents a month. But we did that on Friday. In a day. So you freed up a lot of buying power. Unclick that for a moment. You had $26,000 you were using. Now you're using just under 22. Nice contraction. Nice good trade. I mean, you know, $3,000 or $4,000 in buying power over those two trades. We did. We used it on Friday. We had a lot of trading volatility and Thursday and volatility was staying bid and was high. Kind of ramped it up a little bit and you got rewarded. So it's a good deal. Nice. All right. So I've got a couple. I don't have any new trades for you today, but I've got some rolling trades for you to do. And they're all in the bottom half of your portfolio there where you have, well, what seemed to be most of your losses right now. Twitter being your biggest loss on the board. Do you realize that you started this Twitter trade? Let's go to a chart of Twitter for a moment. This was like a, I think we did a Jade lizard. Ratio spread. Oh, we bought one put sold to. So stock, I'll go to the 23rd right around 1023. Stocks going to be above 28 or something, a little bit right there. Perfect. You bought one put sold to puts. It's a bullish to neutral strategy. If the stock stays in between here, which was, I think it was a 2826 put spread that you did, bought one sold to. You have risked down below 24. Now you've got the stock at 22. Well, I'm trying to show you as the stock was 29. It's now 22 and changed. You're down 350 bucks. You're a bullish to neutral on the stock. Stock goes down $67. You're out $3.3 and a half dollars. Stinks doesn't make it any better. But now you have a position we got to take care of. All I'm trying to show you is when you're directly wrong, you lost a little bit less. That's what selling premium is all about. Yeah. Okay. Let's go into a trade page of Twitter. Now I'm doing this one first for you because I think it's going to be the easiest ones of the ones that we do. You're going to have to open up a couple more strikes and change that to tasty trade if you could from there. You'll think you're. And change return on capital to position. Please apologize. Okay. So you're short a 28 put. Is that the only position you have on a Twitter? That is the only position you have on a Twitter. What do you want to do with it? I mean, you basically long 100 share of stocks, stocks down to 86 cents. It stinks. It hasn't had an uptick in 15 days. What do you want to do? I mean, if we're going to keep it on, we got to roll it and I mean, are we going to look to sell a call? Well, listen, I mean, okay, I've resisted. You actually wanted to sell some calls. Probably going to save us about a hundred bucks anywhere between 75 and 125 dollars, say a hundred, a hundred bucks. Well, I think you have no choice now. Yeah. I'm going to open up, let's just click on buying that back the 28 put. And you can close that bottom before me. Okay, close up January. Let's go to February. Open up the February options. Remember I talked about this on Friday, how we have to expiration. February options are going to be are going to be created. It can be 60 days, a little bit longer duration for us, but I got to sell premium. I mean, that's just my whole game. I don't like doing this. I don't want to do this, but I have to do this. Okay. You're long, I'm sorry, you're short to 28 put. What put do you want to sell? I mean, we would have to stay at the 28. No, well, you can do whatever you want. I mean, can we roll down and still collect the credit? I would doubt it. You could probably roll down to the 27 and still collect just about even to maybe pay 15 cents or something. Okay, you pay 30 cents, but you're going to sell a call, right? Yeah. So rather just go to the 28 and then sell the call there or sell and or go like inverted on the call. If you're going to go inverted in the calling, might as well just make it a straddle with the put. You know what I mean? So what you're doing is you're just selling even more premium. So here, close that up for a minute, leave it the way it is. So the 27 put, remember, we just look at the call. The 27 put has about 70 cents and extra in value. So if you sold the 27 put has about 70 cents and extra in value. So we sold the 27 put rolling down. We're collecting about 70 cents and extra in value, but we're rolling down a dollar. So it's costing us that 30 cents with 33 cents to be exact. We sell the 27 call and we collect the 72 cents. We're doing it for a total of around 40 cents credit or you stay the 28 and you collect about a dollar, but you're rolling down for a dollar. You're doing it for just about even. It's entirely up to you. You're called. I'm done with this trade. Yeah, let's just stay at the 28 and sell it and sell the call. Okay, go back to the credit and listen, you're talking about one, you're talking about one dollar now, close it up for just a quick second. So what's the probability we get to 28 an expiration? 14%. Yeah, 28% chance that we touch. Kind of stinks. Yeah, it stinks. So do you want to go down to the 27? I don't know. Well, 27 is 17 is 34. I'm not saying it's 26 is a 50 50 shot. I mean, we're going to be rolling this one for a bit. I like it. 28 it is. Close that. Go back to that. You should have it all up. Oh, you did it. Okay, perfect. Okay, you want to go in a bit price 104 and then you can change it. Sure. Actually go to 106. Then you can change a little bit later because the markets are a little bit wide on those on those puts. Cool. Okay, so I think that was the easy one. Now let's go to some of the hard ones. Go to trade page and XOP. XOP also the same way on it, but hasn't had an uptick in forever. Yeah. In January, you're a little bit inverted. You're short to 36 put and you short to 34 calls. 34 calls trading at 17 cents. Not doing you a lot of a lot of good, right? Let's look to close this trade and open up another one. Let's buy the 36 put. Let's buy the 34 call and let's go to January. I'm sorry, February. Okay, what put you on a cell? You got the 36. Maybe we've got to go to the 36 again, I mean, right? You don't have to. The 36 is kind of like stock. Yeah, I mean, it's 60 cents of extrinsic value. I don't know if it's actually worth it. Okay, so if you go to the 32 that has a dollar of extrinsic, I mean. Yeah, that would be around the area. Look at the markets on those calls though. See how wide they are? Yeah. It's kind of a crummy product. For that reason, I'd rather have more directional risk because I feel I'm going to get ripped off when I'm making the roll now. Does that make sense? Does that make sense what I'm saying? Yes, you're saying you're going to like stick with it for a little bit longer or I'm saying I'm going to stick with it for a little bit longer, but I also think I'm going to get a three or four or five cent worse fill. So I'm going to have to make that up somehow. So hopefully I'll make it up in direction. Okay, so instead of the 36 put the one that you're short, let's go down to say the 34 put. Does that work? Okay, so click on sell in the 34 put and let's sell the 34 call. So $1.27 debit remember we're going down two strikes though. So you're actually doing it for around a 70 cent credit. Does that make sense? Because you're improving by the $2. It's not really improving because if we wrap, yeah, you're moving it. You're just moving it. You're not improving it. Yeah. Okay, let's go in at a less debit and then you can cancel and change it later on. The way. Keep going. Perfect. Stay right there. Good. Now he can firm and send and send. Okay. Man, you're going to get filled up close to it. Okay, beautiful. All right, so why'd I go in less debit because the market is so wide there and that's all. Okay, Twitter, XOP, how about EWZ? High class problem if we start getting tested on these strikes, right? Yeah. You realize that right? Yeah, I want it to be interesting. No matter what happens, it's a high class problem. Okay. Let's go into the trade page of EWZ. I'm going to get about three minutes on. You're short to 23 puts and the 23 calls. Again, same type of situation, basically stock. Let's look to buy both of those back lists by that 23 straddle back. And let's go into February. Okay. Which one you want to sell in February? I mean, why are we staying there? Exactly. Exactly. Now you got to, this is the best role of the mall on a percentage basis because you got a 50-50 shot of hit in 23. Yeah. Touching it. You're tight on the calls here, but the puts are. Well, the puts are going to always be a little wider. All the in the money options are always going to be wider because they are like stock. Yeah. The calls in this case are all extrinsic value. Let's sell the 23 put and let's sell the 23 call. Let's go in for a little bit of higher credit and see if we get filled. Perfect. And then you can change where we put it. It's fine. Cool. Okay. One last one. X, L, E. Stay right there. This we only have the puts left, right? Because our... We have a put spread. Yeah, because the call is expired Friday. What do you do here? I mean, I think this one you kind of hang on to for a little bit because it's a fine risk. So... Excellent answer. And I thought you were going to get wrong. Come on. You can't doubt me anymore, pops. You're right. $3 wide spread to find the risk. We would hope for the stock in the next couple of days, a week, to get in between our two short strikes. When it gets in between your two short strikes, you might have a chance to roll to February for even or a small credit. That's what we're hoping for. We're not necessarily hoping for 63, which is kind of unrealistic with a 16% probability of closing above their expiration, a 32% chance of getting there at expiration. We would hope for something around 61, 61 and a half, which is about a 50-50 shot. Good job, Adieu. You did all right. I'm learning. You are learning. You are learning. All right, let's take a quick break here and talk about what we went through today. A couple of things. You closed two trades. We ramped up our buying power, meaning we used a lot of buying power on Thursday and Friday when volatility was high to put on trades. Got lucky, got rewarded volatility, contracted, took off a bunch of trades, freed up a lot of buying power. Then we rolled all those trades that we talked about on Friday, XOP, XLE, we talked about XLE, EWZ, and Twitter that we talked about new options because it's February expiration. Sorry, it's January expiration. We now have February monthly options. We rolled all of those earnings. Do we take into consideration that Twitter might have earnings in February or the end of January? At this point, it's probably only help us, really. Maybe gaps up for something. Can you believe this? He does listen. Good job, Adieu. Nice work, who comes up next. Got Tim Knight next. Peace. Peace. Android.
Video: 055 - What Profit Should I Look For After Rolling The Trade 12 22 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Did you go back, where do I start? That versus bat, how are you son? Great day! Great day so far. Countdown all time high let's go take a quick look. Maybe we should spend the next 15 minutes on looking at this screen. Yeah. To stare at it lovingly. Oh. Oh yeah you're up to 134 today. You used to that. Yeah right it's not bad. Yeah. Listen, you spent enough months down, right? I said, big swing. I mean, we were down around four grand. You're up a thousand, five thousand, five thousand dollar swing and it's relatively small period of time for five months. That's pretty big. Excuse me. As you reach new heights and do goals, I hope you've learned everything I could teach you because I'm dying. Yeah, I've long tried to clear off. I gotta take that spot, come on. I understand. I was in your position at one time too. Let's see what you're working here. Part of me, I do apologize. Okay, being a little aggressive with the Yamaha and Condor probably not gonna move that much, but I get it. I get it yesterday was in that range where like, if I got a little bit of a volatility contraction, maybe get out, but I don't know. There's no harm in leaving it on. So that's true. The way volatility is moving today down 77 cents straight in 18 or five. And we were putting on these positions. Well, it's well above 20 at the time. It's forward slash VX that we're looking at. So I get it. You're trying to roll OIH. We'll talk about that in a minute. And you're trying to close an SPY air in Condor. I've seen you've had that in for a long time. That was trading around 64, 65 cents. The market's rally a little bit EMS and peace trading in their highs up 1375. So that's moved away from you. But oil's doing good for you. You're everything that we rolled yesterday is doing good for you. What are we gonna look at today? I've got something. Well, two things. I've betrayed that I want you to close. OIH, we have to think about how we're gonna roll that. And if we'll sell a call with it, I'm gonna have an air Condor I want you to do. Okay. Which one do you want to do first? Well, let's get the closing order on first. The closing order on? Yeah. Okay, let's go to the account statement tab. I drink something over here from Tom's desk, but he's been sick for like three years. Mm-hmm. I don't want to have anything there. Um, gee. Okay, so this has been going on since 1023. You started out a $2.67. It looks like it was basically a straddle, the 108 straddle. And you bought the wings to use less risk. Okay, so if we're looking at that, we'll be looking to manage at 25%. So you're looking at a straddle. As a straddle, usually we manage everything at 50%. When we do a straddle, we're going closer to half the money. We're going at the money. We want to collect 25% of the possible profit. So you're looking at what? 70, 80, 60, 90 cents, something in that range. With all your rolls, you sold that at $2.67. Then you rolled for a dollar nine that brings up to what, 376. Yeah. And you paid for the wings in December, 13 cents, that brings us down to about 363 or something. Then you rolled down two strikes from the 108 to the 106. That brings you down to around $3. It might be rounding a little bit now. 306. 306, you paid 10 cents, you paid 10 cents debit, and you sold that put for four cents. Let's just say you're in for the whole thing for three bucks. Three bucks or something like that. Let's go back to the trade page if we could for a quick second. I'm sorry, I'm at the monitor tab, I'll just open up FXZ. Create closing order. Let's just buy the guts, the 106 call and put. Just highlight it and right click. Okay, so it's trained for 225 and you're up about 80 bucks. That's the $3 we collected, 225 to 75 cents. I mean, all the math is right there. I want to go through that for you so that everybody else can see it. Because we started out the 108 strike, we're going to go down to the 106 stock stream at 107. Your profit is what it is if you go through all of the work. Now I know Doe does that for you inside the Doe platform, which is pretty cool. Correct? Yeah. So you want to close that? How do you close it? Left click on it and then we'll... Right click on it and just close the whole middle, right? Yeah. Okay, let's go into 224 and you can change it later on. That'll come on another screen or they won't show it to you, but it'll be on another screen. Okay, that'll be a closing order. You'll be freeing up around $1,100. You'll free up some money the other day. We'll be freeing about $6 or $7,000 going into a close in a year. Pretty good, pretty good do because the market went our way. The market didn't go our way. We'd be leaving all this stuff on. Okay, that's your FXE trade. Let's go into a win. Let's go to a chart of win if we could. And you may have some P-Zero 1575. Yeah, I'm getting a late rally. For the usual. Yeah, win's been a pain for you. We haven't had good success with win. So I want to do the flying risk trade. Okay, well, I'm bored with that. Okay, 69% IV rank, even though it is high relative to the rest of the world, I don't think it's that high relative to win over the last six months. But we're searching for high implied volatility. You certainly could argue over the last three months have been going sideways. Yeah. Let's see what the trade page brings us. Let's go into trade page. And let's go into February options. And I think you're going to be okay. I don't want February options. I'm sorry, January. On it's 20 cents wide. Yeah, and I just looked at February. It looks like it's 63 IV ranks. So it must have earnings or something like that coming there. It was January that was looking at earlier. Okay, you're going to need some strikes. We're going to go really, really wide. All right. We're going to go to like the 23, 25% probability of being out of the money. And let's see if we can do like a $3 wide iron condor. So on the downside, let's look at 60, 57. So we'll sell the 60 put. Sorry. And we'll buy the 57. Classic $3 wide, classic $3 wide credit spread. We like to collect one third of the width of the strikes with 45 days to go. 50 cents is not a good credit with 24 days to go. All I'm trying to do is give you the math. 45 days, you're looking to collect around $1, 25 days. You're about half that distance for 50 cents as a stand-alone trade with 24 days to go. Even though it has high implied volatility, I probably wouldn't make this trade. But let's see if we can combine it together and collect one third of the width of the strikes on an iron condor. Since we're using the same amount of buying power. Whether we just sell the credit spread, the credit spread, if we were bullish or the call spread. Let's go up to the 75, 78. And he's just holding down a control key to put each one of these in. All right, bucko six. Now all of a sudden, I've got one third of the width of the strikes. Since I have one third of the width of the strikes and you can find this in any trade in any stock. All of a sudden, I like it. Okay. Okay. You'll notice the little expected move there on the left hand side. Down at the bottom, everybody can have this. The stock has to go down $1.81. Excuse me. Up $1.81 for you to be filled at 106. So let's move it down two or three pennies and see what happens just for the sake of time. Okay. So stop. As soon as we go to 104, the computer says we should be filled approximately. Let's go in at 104. It might be a 103 trade, but let's go in at 104. And you can close it or you know, you can do it later on using around $200 in buying power. Cool. Markets actually pretty tight in win two in the call options, only like two, three cents wide on each one of those. Maybe a little bit more. Yeah. Four, five cents. Okay. Cool. All right. Let's go to OAH. Let's stay right here with you. Don't mind. Let's open up to January options. Usually with 24 days to go, I'd be looking to stay in January. Yeah. You've got 28, you get the 28 puts at your short stocks moved 80 cents today. Nice move for you. Now if we're looking to roll, we roll into strength. This would be rolling into strength. Yeah. Now you're short to 28. We have a working order in there to roll it. You have a working order into roll just the put side. Yeah, just the put side. So, okay. So that's what I want to talk to you about. So if you're rolling the put side, do you want to roll the call side? Well, you'd probably just add a new call in February, right? Would you buy back your Jan 30 call? I mean, yeah, it's trading at 10 cents. Why would you not? Plus, you're going to have to use more buying power. Doesn't make sense not to, but we could roll it down to the 20s. We can use it all as one trade. Let's see what we can do with it. Let's close up January. Should you show up to Jan 30 calls? Let's take a look at what February looks like. Okay. So in February, what calls would you sell? Well, I mean, the 28 call is a 30 dollar to the sell. You could, that's you could. That would be that would be. Yes, I'd be selling it in the money straddle because your put is a bucket a half in the money. You could certainly sell the 30 call also. Do that roll for 30 cents. You'll be doing the put roll for 50 cents. You'd be rolling for a total of 80 cents. I do apologize. Okay. What do you want to do? Well, let's see what, what are we going to get on the straddle at the 28? You're going to get another 50 cents on there. So it'd be like a, a book 50 to get on 90 cents. You'll be rolling for 50 cents. Let's go to the working water real quick. Oh, IH, let's cancel that. You're in a 53 cent credit right there. Red perfect. It's cancel the order. We'll do the whole thing back to trade page. Thanks. So now we're going to, if you want to, you can sell that Feb 28 put. If you want, it doesn't either way. Okay, buy the Jan 28 put. Sell the Feb 28. Okay. That's fine by the 30 call. Thank you. Sell the Jan 28 put. And let's sell the, let's sell the 30 and we'll change it. So this would be rolling the whole trade. I could be getting a 77 cent credit. Same strikes. Now change that Feb 30 to the 28. You getting a buck 31 credit. Obviously you're going to get more credit. Yeah. You have more directional risk, right? What's the IV rank in OIH? That's the first, that's the next thing you should be asking. Let's go to trade page. It's in the 60s, I believe. 52. 52. High enough. Okay. So what's the stock done over the last 10 days? It's down almost 8% in the last 10 days after a big rally today. Okay. So if it was a new trade high implied volatility, I probably be long. Okay. I mean, that would be my opinion just on what the market's presenting to me. 10% down move high implied volatility. I'd probably be leaning a little bit longer. So for that reason, I'd probably go to stay with the 30. Okay. Take more directional risk and receive less credit. I can probably roll that 30 down. I mean, we'll have 50 some days till expiration if... Well, the good chance will be inverted at some point. Yeah, probably. Right? I mean... All right, so let's keep it. I mean, then 77 cents, it's solid credit. Okay, since the... Since that... In the money put is so wide, let's go in it like 79 cents, and then you can walk it down and change it after we're done with the show. Cool. Does it make sense? Yeah. Okay. Even the S&P's making a new high up 20... Excuse me, up $15 trading 2030, volatility is contracting a little bit more. That's why your account is doing a little bit better. And you also... Let's bait away your overall position. We've got about two minutes left. You were basically flat, actually long 15 delta's two days ago, I think, right? Yeah. We're short 110 delta's without really adding any short delta's to your overall position. That's just the market moving. That's when if you're going to have positive theta, which you have $68 in positive theta, that means you're usually short premium. You have to be short premium. If you're short premium, you get shorter delta's as the market goes higher. You get longer delta's as the market goes lower. That's the only way I found the last 30 years to buy low and sell high. I can't do it as a human being normally. Because when all hell is breaking loose, that's when everybody wants to get out of everything. That's when you probably should be buying. And when everything is rosy, that's when everybody wants to buy everything. That's when you probably should be selling things. Just by selling premium, it kind of puts you in that position. And then you massage it from there. Manage. Manage it. All right, let's take a quick break here. I'll try to catch my breath and take another drink of water in a minute. And then we'll go on with the rest of the show. What do we talk about today? Going back to win? Yeah. Define rich trade. Okay, this one goes better. Yeah, put our tail between our legs a little bit and then it's kind of beat us up. Let's stay with the program. This time we'll do a define rich trade with about a 65% probability of success. Put ourselves in a winning place. We can ring the register, maybe be a little bit more confident in win. And then we look to close an FXE trade. You can have to move some of these a penny or two. And if we do, you'll tweet it out. Yeah, I'll also show it on tweet them out. They'll be on the follow page. And Doan droid is out. So if anybody hasn't downloaded that yet, check out my Twitter. I have the link for it. What is your Twitter? Trader Nikki bat. Trader Nikki bat. And also you can send an email to support at tctr.com. And what about if they find any type of bugs or suggestions or things? Bugs feedback. Please shoot us an email to either the support desk. Support at tctrade or support at toe.com. Good job out of you, Nikki. What do we say? Peace. When we come to the next. Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 056 - Comparing Iv Ivr Between Different Underliyings 12 23 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Let's take a look at your account. Let's go to the monitor tab. Well, you actually had a account lows for the day. You're up about $80, $7.00. Up a thousand, $18.00 for the day took, we lost about $80 on the, that lost $80.00. We were up around 300, you ended up being up around $250 or $220 or something like that. Yesterday, that's why your P&L, your date is closer to $1,000, where it was yesterday on the close, was actually a little bit higher, even though it was showing you a profit today. That's just the marks at the end of the day. Councilor, pretty good. Yeah. So far, you want to bait away it and see what your delta's on? Mm-hmm. Put an SPY. You're short of 194 delta's. Do you remember what you were last Friday? We were on change. Right. You had about zero delta's actually long, or 12, or 14, or something like that. So we've picked up, have we put on any short positions? Not really. We took off a SPY position. We closed some positions that were leaning you long into the rally, which gets you a little bit shorter, and then existing positions that you have on get shorter as the market goes higher. Yeah. They're circling SPY and you're diamond. So basically what you have on is you have long-well positions. That would be the bottom half of your portfolio, their X-XLE, XOP, against short index products, like SPY, the Q's. And you've got a couple of small longs and stocks like Twitter, and you have some shorts like McDonald's. Mm-hmm. Pretty balanced portfolio. Yeah. But you're leading a little bit short now. Okay. So keeping that in mind, let's look for a new trade that's a little neutral. And I'd love to get shorter the market as we've rallied into this, but your portfolio is already doing that for you. So at this juncture, we'll find something that's neutral a little bit short. Okay. All right. Yeah. Let's go into a chart of Whole Foods, WFM. 23 days left to expiration. Whole Foods is up about 12% in the last 10 days. Okay. Obviously doing better than the overall market over the last 10 days, especially over the last month or so, the stocks come from around $29 up to about $34. Ivy rank is 59%. Yeah. I don't know. You could do just about anything you want. I mean, certainly selling premium here would be an okay position for me. How about you? Cool. Yeah. Cool. Okay. Let's go into a trade page of Whole Foods, WFM. We played this on the earnings, too. Did we? Yeah. We played for scratch. I would never play for scratch. No, we have played for scratch. I always played a win. Yeah. You and you, maybe you would get participation awards that you collected so much as a young man while playing football and other sports like volleyball. You had participation awards. But I always played to win. Mm-hmm. Okay. Let's go into January with 23 days to go. You just took off an iron condor in yum that worked out really nice for you. We sold it around $2.01, about 10, 12 days ago. What a back at $1.01, I think. Let's try to do the same kind of thing. Let's lean a little bit short in here just because of the run up in Whole Foods. Sounds good. Yeah. You want to sell like the at the money call, like the $34.5 for the $35. I got a $35. Okay. Let's sell the $35 call. And let's buy the $38 call. You can hold down the control key and just click on the $38 call. That'll give us a short vertical spread. Okay. $3 wide. It's typically what our research shows. Kind of like the best ying and yang between risk and reward from our research. And then let's go down to the $32.29. I'm going to sell the $32.29 and we're going to buy the $29. That's the $29.30. It's okay. Just go right to the, yeah, it's perfect. Awesome. You see what says theo, mark and price in the middle of the page. Go up a little bit higher. Right above all. Yeah. Click on that and go down to tasty trade. All the way down at the bottom is the last one. Click on that. Great. Perfect. All right. So the $32.29 has about a 25% probability of being in the money. There you go. And the $35 call has about a 40% probability of being in the money. So it's certainly leaning you a little bit short. Okay. So work for you. Yeah. Okay. What was the overall credit? Did it say that? That's $4. You have to, there you go. Okay. $4.3. Let's go in $3.3. See what happens. You can always change it later on. Cool. So work for you? Yeah. I mean, we're just trying to rinse and repeat it. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Go ahead. Taking premium. It's to find risk. Doesn't use a lot of buying power. Right? Yeah. Okay. It's end. All right. So that'll work. I would expect you'd have to move that about a penny to get filled. Maybe even two. To stock rallies, you'll get filled. Okay. Stock stays here. You'll have to move it down a penny or two. Okay. Because it does have a little bit of that short delta. All right. Now, I know you hang out on the support desk when you're not a famous movie star here. For my 15 minutes of fame. 15 minutes of fame on the TC trade network. And I know you've been getting a lot of emails about CMG and it's high implied volatility. A lot of news. A lot of things happening. So there's a lot of interest in this. A lot of interest. And that's understandable. So let's go to a trade page first of CMG. Let's close out that bottom order entry for a moment. And we can leave the markets open for me. Let's go to the at the money options if we could. You can stay in January if you want. Okay. Okay. So the stock is trading around $500. And the markets are about 60 cents wide. Now, I'm going to change this from a $500 stock or $496 stock to a $50 stock in my head. Okay. We have a 60 cent wide market in the at the money options. And it looks like about a 60, 70 cent market in the adamant. So if I take one tenth of that, that's about a seven cent market on a 50 cent on a 50 dollar stock. Okay. Not great. I mean, it's not huge. It's certainly within my, I'm okay with it. Like, you know, I'd love it to be penny wide, but I check it and I say, okay, that works for me. Okay. Now, let's look, let's try to look at one more thing. Let's close up January for a moment. And let's go to a trade, let's go to a chart and then we'll come back to the trade page for a moment. Let's go to a chart of CMG. Now, you might think I'm going to say something like, you know, this pattern is, is a great pattern to get long or something like that. Stock is down 13 percent, 13.5 percent of the last 10 days. So that's another check for me. Okay. Now, I'm looking at, I look at the markets. They're okay. I look at what the stock is done. Okay. It's going to lean me a little bit long in my eyes before I even look at the option chain. It's going to lean me a little bit long. And then I'm going to say to myself, okay, what's the implied volatility rank? Now, the IV rank is a hundred. Now we can stay a hundred for a long time. Yeah. Meaning because it's going to stay the same and monthly implied volatility to keep it at a hundred. Okay. Let's do one more thing before, because this is a stock in the news. It's not typically at this level. Let's go back to the trade page in CMG. Now I want you to try to keep this in your mind. If you look all the way to the right, you'll see the monthly implied volatility in January is 47 percent. Okay. And the back month implied volatility, let's just call it 40 percent. 38 to 42 will just say it's 40 percent. Is that you working with me so far? Yeah. So far, I know there's like a binary event. I know it's not earnings, but it's just that CMG is so much in the news. Well, there is an earnings announcement in February. In February, but I'm looking at January and then I'm looking at March, which has nothing to do with February. He's February 46. It's the same in January. Okay. It's in February. Yeah. That's far, okay. Okay. What I want to do is I want to compare this now to something that has maybe better markets and see how it compares. Let's go to a chart first of Netflix. Now, what I want to show you in Netflix is it does not have the high IV rank that CMG has. It only has about 30 some odd percent. There you go. 30 percent IV rank. Okay. It's gone down like Chipotle has gone down, not quite as severe. Probably half as much, 5 percent versus 10 percent. But so far, they're in the same realm. But look at that IV rank, only 30 percent. Try to keep that in mind for a minute. CMG was a hundred. Okay. Let's go to Netflix for a moment on the trade page. And not that Netflix is a great trading vehicle. Let's open up the January options. Okay. Now, we have 15 cent wide markets in most of the markets in Netflix. If we cut that in half and make it the same. About the same. So I've got two of the same type of markets in both. Okay. Let's do one thing that we hadn't done in Chipotle that will do in Netflix and then we'll go to Chipotle in a minute. Let's change that return on capital. Let's see what says ROC up there. Make it volume. It would be, it would be perfect. All right. So we've got, you want to say an average of around 750? Sure. It looks good. Yeah. Just about an average. Okay. Okay. So try to remember that for a moment. Okay. What's the, what's the monthly IV in this stock? 42. 42 versus 47. One has a hundred percent IV rank at 47. One's got a 30 percent IV rank at 42. Yeah. Do you kind of see where I'm going with this? Like, if I told you this is stock had an IV rank of a hundred, I would expect that it would have a monthly implied volatility much greater than the same as Netflix would have 30 percent IV rank. Yeah, but that'd be right. What you're seeing is that the implied volatility at 46 is the highest volatility it's been in. Yes. But is it really high when you compare it to something else that's very similar to it? Like what I'm trying to show you here is I'd almost rather, now let's, the last pizzas. Let's go into and look at the back month in Netflix. Netflix has almost a 50, 60 IV rank. I'd almost rather trade Netflix for a longer haul if that's what you're trying to do in CMG, then trade CMG. Just because the markets are better than the implied volatility is actually higher on a monthly basis. Let's go back to CMG one more time and let's see what the volume is for something that's in play. Okay. Now, the CMG volume, let's just go by average. I know there's a thousand on one line in each one. Would you say 250? Yeah. 300? Oh, it's a lot lower. Yeah. A lot lower. So, I'm not interested in CMG with all the news and the stock going moving 20, 20, 25, like it, like it perks my interest. But what if you dig a little bit deeper in it? It almost brings me back to my roots, which are just stick to the stocks that are tradable and trade without the kind of monthly buy and area event that's happening in CMG. It's for trading, CMG would just be a crap shoot. Like the strategies and the stuff that you can apply, almost the probabilities almost get thrown out the window. When you're dealing with a situation like this or a river. That's correct. There's just so much. It almost becomes like an earnings play where the volatility gets so expanded that there's opportunities because of that one day known event. In CMG, you don't have a one day known event. You have a week, a day, a month, six months of news that you don't know when it's going to come out, then it's going to, I don't know, artificially or real. It doesn't matter. Obviously, it's real. It's going to trade. That's just going to swing the stock around. Even though it has an IV rank and even though we went through everything, I think once we check all the important boxes, yeah, it's a trade if you want to take a crap shoot at, but not something that I think I want to have in my portfolio. Does that make sense? I don't know if I made sense. I tried to make the argument that there are so many better things to do. Even with low IV rank, then trading CMG. In my opinion, I think it makes sense. Your possibilities are limited anyway. You can't really go anything naked on this because of how much buying power it takes. You'd have to think of iron condor or butter or something like that, but... And the street knows that too. That's why the spreads trade so cheap because nobody can afford to sell naked options. Nobody's going to sell a naked option for 50 cents on this stock entirely. Nobody's going to sell a naked option for five dollars. Yeah, sure. Okay. Makes sense? Yeah, makes sense. Cool. Let's take a quick break here and just go over what we talked about. We look to put on a trade an iron condor and whole foods sticking right to the program high implied volatility, leaned us a little bit short for our own directional bias that we have in whole foods. We probably have to move it depending if the stock doesn't rally. Then I think we did a good... I don't know, drill down, walk through on CMG versus Netflix. You could take CMG versus any stock you want compared to Apple. And I think you'll see exactly the same thing. I'd rather put on a marginal trade in Apple than put on any trade in CMG. Makes sense. It's good and you dig good. Disadpressed. Disadpressed. Disadpressed. Disadpressed. Disadpressed. Very articulate, very good. Thank you. It took all my pointers from Tom and then whatever you added. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Knight. What do I normally say? Peace. And Merry Christmas. Happy New Year. Happy holidays.
Video: 057 - Playing Defense 12 29 2015.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna give you a big round of applause for the next episode. Thank you. I think you're back. When I start Bevers Bat, how are you, they son? I feel in the pain. The market is a cruel mistress. Give me a divorce, take it half and leave him. What is the account? Let's get out of here. You're counting. That's pretty good. I'm not gonna lie. Yep. You're down to about $570 to $600. You're right. About half. That would be called a fair divorce. Someday I'll talk to you about mine. Let's bet away your deltas for a quick moment. We're going to SPY. You're going to be sure to around $250. $240. $239. Okay. Let's go to forward slash VX on a chart for a quick second. You're bullish positions like you have an oil XOPXLEX not helping you nearly as much as your short positions are hurting you. You don't have volatility exposure per se meaning VXX, UVXY, forward slash VX or VX. But you've certainly seen volatility come down from in the 20s to the mid teens now. It's holding in there. It's not 12 or 13 like it was a couple of months ago. But it's still on the lower end. The worst time for us to roll. I'm giving you the bad part now I'm going to give you the good mechanical part. The good mechanical part means the portfolio dictates to you how to be mechanical. 240 deltas. Have you ever had more deltas on any one time? That's around the high. That's about the high right. But you had those deltas when we were short around $250. Mark was at all time highs, markets near highs, not at all time highs and even SPs. Mark is higher but you have 17 days left to the front month. So there's still time to do something. If there was seven days left you'd have to roll to the following month or be out. So I'm thinking about reducing your deltas by as much as a quarter to a half. In those products where you're hurting go back to the monitor tab if you don't mind for just a quick second. So what I'm talking about is your Amazon position to broker wing butterfly which is going to say we can't. And I think we have that in February too. We do. We do. We have a lot of time. We rolled it last time for even. Yeah. So I'm talking about diamonds. You've got 90 deltas on there and you're down almost $200. IWM you got about 57 deltas. You're down $100 in there and SPY you're down $165 about 80 90 deltas in there too. So I'm going to cut all those in half. Look to the right you buying power effects around $20,000 $19,800 bucks. Okay you ready? Yeah. Okay we've got about 15 minutes. I want to roll diamonds IWM and SPY. Okay. How would we roll them? Let's go into trade page for a moment and change one of the columns from ROC to positions. So when I say roll something or reduce delta and you basically have iron condors on, just wide strangles on your short one side, short the other, how do you roll those positions? What would you do? You got to do them in sets, like the puts first and then the call. We're not going to do any calls. We're going to leave the calls we always leave the tested side alone. And we roll up the untested side. Let's open up a bunch more strikes. Can we go to DIA first? Because they're all a little bit different. Okay, now, the first call that you're short is the 175. It seems like it's deep in the money because there's half dollar wide strikes. But the diamonds are up, well, they're up 200 points right now. You short the 175 calls, let's go down a little bit further. Which by the way, yesterday we're out of the money. Yeah. I meant to go the other direction, I apologize. Stop right there. And you short the 168 puts. Those 168 puts with a 10% probability of being in the money, 90% chance of being out of the money. Trading for around 35 cents. Don't do you any good. Yeah, there's not much left in there. There's not much left. Okay. Okay, so we have to roll up. All right. So what I would do is I'm looking to buy two of those 168 puts. You can click on it a second time if you want. I'm going to make it a two lot. Just hold down the control key. Great. And then we can reduce that order entry bar if you could. Good. And what put we would look to sell? If we're going to reduce it by like a quarter, what do we have? Forget about that. Just go to your normal, like your normal process. If you were opening a trade and you look at 30 delta. Yeah, nothing changes. Yeah. I mean, nothing changes right now because you're not inverted yet. You see your call is the 175 call. You can go as high as the 175 call. Because I would go as high as the 175 put. Be equal with your 175 call. But the 174 is perfectly fine by me. Okay. Let's sell two of those 174s. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Next time you can just hold it down, double click on make it. All right. Straighten for around 74 cents. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's lock it. Keep it in there. Not a lot of credit. That's $1.50 total. Okay. Because it's a two lot. I mean, you know, it is what it is, right? You're reducing your delta by, let's say, let's say the one delta was 10 and the other one was 30. That's 20. That's 40 delta. So you're reducing it by half. All right. Just about a third to a half. And are we, we're going to keep the puts where they are the long puts. The long puts will keep where they are. And we're going to move them in another account because hit confirm and send one time. And it's showing you that you're using about $1,000 in buying privacy of the parentheses. So you're adding another $1,000. Now you have the money. You have about 20,000 you're using about 10,000 sitting on the sidelines. But I'm going to get it equal in a moment. Okay. Okay. All right. Let's go in at 74 cents and we'll just let it work and you can change it later on because the E-Main S&P's have not had a downtick all day. In fact, they're making new highs right now. A pretty usual. I feel like every time we come on here, we're making new highs. Listen, you make a trade typically once a day during the show. I mean, it's not ideal, but it works in our favor half the time. It works against us half the time. You only remember the ones that don't work in your favor. That's true. All right. So let's get into IWM and maybe you can do this one for me. It's pretty similar to what we've done already. So let's just take a look. Open up a bunch more strikes for me because I know they have half dollar wide strikes. You might even have to go a hundred or something like that to find out what you have. Now, this is considered an iron condor because you're short, a call spread and a put spread. Your first long put is the 99 put. Go down a little bit further. You're short, a 106 put and you're short of 109 put. Same situation that you had in the diamonds, trading for around 30 cents. 30 cents is not a magical number. It's just how it's working out to be here. Now let's go up and see what calls you're short. Now you're short, the 111's and you're short, the 115's, which are basically at the money right now. So what would you do here? And the long call, your long call, that's like the 120's or something like that and the 124's. I think teens 124. Okay. So it's an iron condor but it's a very big one. We treat it like a strangle. Okay. Just using less buying power because a hundred dollars. Yeah. Okay. So what would you do? Well, we wouldn't go, we wouldn't want to go inverted to go to the 30 delta, like if I'm going to roll those puts up. So we've got, we've got one of the shorts that 111 calls. So would we roll both of the puts up to the 111? You know what? That's pretty good. Yeah. I don't have any, I don't have any problem with that. I think that's exactly what you should do. Yeah. Because I mean, like we're still directly leaning. You want us to go right to 111. Yeah. Which has a 40% probability of a touch, 20% close there. Yeah. So let's double click on the 111. Okay. Now what are you going to buy? Close down the order entry. You got to buy something because that keeps it all equal. Leave the 109 and let's go up to the 106 and you buy two of the 106's. Okay. Now hit confirm and send one time. Wow. This has really moved it. Okay. It was trading for around 68 cents or so last time I looked at it. It's around 40 cents right now. Okay. Because the markets moved in IWM a lot since the last time I looked. But use around 900 bucks. Not the best. Yeah. But what are we going to do? Okay. Okay. And then we're leaving the 99 puts. The long ones that we have there. Yeah. Let's close that up for a moment before you send it. Let's look at the 99 puts. Okay. They're trading for three cents, five cents. Maybe because some of four cents. Who cares? Yeah. Right? I mean, it's $8 of the next 17 days. You're talking about a quarter a day, 50 cents a day. Okay. Because they're extra long positions for us, aren't they? I mean, because they're not going to help you because you're not going to sell anything. Yeah. You sell them out for a couple cents. You make money. Okay. So do me a favor. Delete that trade and just sell two of the 109. Excuse me. So two of the 111 puts. I just want to show them what a difference the buying power reduction is. It confirms and now you're using $3,700 bucks. Okay. So $3,700 bucks. $3,700 bucks. Okay. So let's buy two of the 106 puts. And I say the 106 puts, we can go. They have 106 puts as far. Yeah. I mean, you can go down to something else. Yeah. Yeah. You can go down to 105. Right. What difference does it make? Right? Okay. Okay. I'm going at 41 cents since we're at all time highs or at least for the day. It confirms the sense. Right. So we used around $1,900 so far. Okay. Let's go into SPY. And we look to do the same thing, but this one, this time is a little bit different. Let's see what puts we have an SPY. I think we're down to the 1806's. So in the calls, you're short to 206's, which you're just in the money today. Remember, this just happened with the E-mini S and P's up to 50 right now. Okay. We have the same type of position on and each one of these is different strikes. Okay. Let's go up a little bit further. Keep going, keep going. Uh, 1805, is there like a 1806? Okay. There should be another one somewhere. We have the 1805 and the 193. Okay. Perfect. All right. So go a little bit further down. What put would you want to roll up? Remember, always roll in the untested side. We would want to go to the 204. Yeah. 203 or 204. I mean, the E-mini S and P's rolling up around 20 when I was looking at this before. And I was coming up with the 203's. 204's work. Okay. Okay. So let's double click on the 204's. Let's do it twice. Perfect. Okay. Now, what I want to say here is, let's go down a little bit further. Same type of thing that happened in IWM. Okay. We should probably buy the 193 put that were short, right? So let's buy that one. Okay. And let's go down a little bit further. You can close that order entry. Okay. Now, stop from it. Means nothing for what we're about to do in this trade. It's marginal at best. But I just want you to be aware of markets. I need to buy another option or two. Okay. Because we just sold two of the 203 puts. I have to buy two of something else. Okay. What put should I buy now? I mean, if we're going to a 10 cent option, the 185 would work or the 186. Okay. Why wouldn't I buy the 186? I'm going to have to pay 10 cents or 9 cents for the 185. I'm going to get filled at 10 cents or 9 cents for the 186. I know it means nothing. We're not probably going to go down to 186. But if I buy the 186 put for 10 cents or I buy the 185 put for 10 cents, I'd rather buy the 186 put. You never know. Because you're using that much less by paying power. Well, would you like to take the bus directly to your house or one block away from your house? They're both the same price. You know what I'm trying to say is like why buy the 185 put for 10 cents when I can buy the 186 put for 10 cents? Okay. Yeah. I mean, we'll reduce your buying power by 100 bucks, won't it? It will reduce my buying power by it and plus it's a free put spread. Okay. Okay, so we got to buy two of the 186 put. So we're going to keep the 185 on then? Yeah, you'll be long, the 186, 185 put spread. Okay. But you're really not going to be long for free. Yeah. Because they're both trading for the same price. Okay. As opposed to buying three of the 185's. That's correct. Okay. Two of the 185's making sure that's correct. Open two more. Hey, confirm and send one time. Let me show you what we've done. Okay. So now you're buying power effect and here's only $383. It should be that's, oh, because we went up to the one close effort minute. The 204. And go to the 203 put for just a quick second and change the credit. Let the, okay. That's 226 bucks. That thought was going to be, I was actually thought it was going to give you a small amount of credit. Okay. Doesn't matter. Let's go back to the 204. Okay. Markets at all time. How do you want to go into two 14 for the day? Two 14. You want to go into another price. Yeah. What's going to mid price? Okay. You want to put it up penny above? I would. All right. Then let's go penny above. There you go. You can always cancel the replace. Doesn't cost you anything. That's correct. You're, you're 100% correct to confirm and send it send. All right. Do you have the analyze tab up there? Okay. And can you, is that with the positions or without the new position, you can get filled on anything, right? You got to delete that to an old one. Just delete on the right hand side. What I want to do is show you buying power effect. If you get filled on these, you'll, you'll see that your buying power effect is actually going to, it's okay. I can't do right now. That's okay. Well, we'll take a look tomorrow. Because you're going to get filled on all of these. You can send it out on Do. You have to get filled on all of these and you can tweet that also. Remember, your buying power, let's go back to the monotab for a quick second was around $19,800. That was your overall, that's $22.1. Oh, that's because of the working orders. I haven't been filled yet. Okay. Remember, was $19,800. We'll see how much your buying power reduction changes or increases or gets less. Okay. Well, that day for you. I know. Tough day. I mean, the Amazon position is a killer right now. I mean, the whole thing's being equal. I mean, your diamond position's worse than your Amazon position by $12.12. Yeah. Just today, but not total. This is true. This is true. Yes. What is Amazon? Let's open it up. I think it's up like 20 on the day. No. Did it hit 700 yet? That's only a matter of time. $19 and $16. Yeah. 200% correct. Wow. What do you do with that? I'm only 17 days. Oh, man, I thought that was in February. I mean, right now you just said, there's nothing you can do. You can't roll it. I mean, that's correct. That's correct. You cannot roll it. I mean, you can, but you'd be rolling for a debit locking in a loss. Yeah. You might as well just close it. Yeah. That's the difference between a defined risk trade and an undefined risk trade. The positive part of it is the stock, when we put this on, which was a bullish play, it was around 620. Yeah. So the stock's gone, I mean, you were off by $80. Yeah. We were off by $80. If you were off by $80, probably deserve to lose some money. Yeah. For two months. Yeah. Right? Yeah. I mean, you skated the one down day last month we were able to roll for, you get it, maybe another chance. Do you want to know what your chances are? Probably very low. Let's go to Amazon and we can come up with a real number. We've got about two minutes. So you got the 40, 50, 70. So you're synthetically short, what? The 60. That's right. 60. So let's go up to the 60s. Okay, stop. Look at the puts. 20% chance of closing in the money at 660, which means there is a 40% of touch. I mean, that's not horrible. Probably better than you thought. Yeah. It gives you a chance. I mean, smoke and hope. Yeah. Nothing you can do. You got to feel that none of your trades because the E-Mini S&P's haven't had a down tick. They're still up $25. Nasdex up $82. Dow's up $214. Bonds down $211. You know any bond exposure? The one thing that's kind of throwing me off a little bit, forward slash VX. It's only down to $0.18. Maybe volatility is kind of even down here. That's why we didn't put on a volatility play. Vial volatility would have gone much lower. Like the bonds have gone lower with the overall market. Then I would have looked at putting a VXX or a UVXY trade on. Instead, we got a roll of P-puts. All right? Yeah. All right, let's take a quick break here on the Sombra Day. You're all puffy-chested yesterday. You're all Sombra Day. What we do today, basically just damage control. You took all of your untested side to most of the strangles that you have on synthetic strangles. They're really iron condors because you do have these wings, but they're way far out, like $20 away from your short strike. It's just to reduce capital. But we talked about how we always roll the untested side and you'll have to get a little bit more aggressive with your pricing so you can get filled. Playing defense. Just got one. Yes. And S.P.Y. Yeah. Saved your dollar. There we go. Every day I'm saving you money. What comes up next? You got computer science. Good night. Peace.
Video: 058 - Year In Review 12 31 2015.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Thank you. Back. When I start bad versus bad, how are you son? Good. Good day. Good last day of the year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's let's go to your account real quick. Costing us an all-time high in your account. Yeah. You're up about, let's just call it $195 for the day. You're up $140, excuse me, $1,040 for your. Nice to at least break the four-figure mark for your account, which is good. But all the roles we did in SPY, I think that role cost about $150. IDLBM cost you about $50, the diamonds cost you about $200. You'd be at an all-time high if we did nothing. Well, that's hindsight trading. You don't do that. In real life, you have to manage your deltas and keep everything in line. Before we go to kind of what we want to do today, and I've got a little bit of a cost, buying power cost effect again, same thing like we did yesterday, and so we could put on another new trade. Not that $21,000 of buying power being used in your account leaves you about $8,500, $9,000 in your account. This is called a $30,000 or $1,000 account. I just want to look at the best ways of utilizing your capital. We'll do a little bit of that today. Hopefully we'll put on a queue position here, but I want to talk to you about just a little bit of a review for a moment. How many different underlines do you think, let me do it this way. When do you think you made your first trade? We did it fairly quick. I think it was within the first, what month? It was in July for sure. Correct. It was probably in the middle of July, but I'll probably say like the 15th, 16th. July 10th. July 10th was your first trade. I started on the sixth, so that was my fourth episode. You were very beginning, you always wanted to put on trades. It goes with our number of occurrences, so we ran with it, which was kind of good. I think you jumped in a little bit quick, but you know what I think. I think that's a key to have skin in the game. Even if you're doing paper money account, I think it drills home. I hate paper money account because it's not skin a game, but I get it. At least it drills home the idea. Do you actually see these things moving in real time? And I don't know. It's a great learning experience on how to use the platform, totally agree with you. One contract, you've got to put on some trades. OK, how many different underlines do you think you had? It's only been five months. You've been trading for five months. Let's say 40. 56. 56, OK. Yeah, OK. How many fills do you think you had? Oh, man. A lot. Let's say, I don't know, 300 maybe. 323 fills for the year, which is pretty good. When I think the average customer, not TST trade watcher, but the average customer broke from it, I think they do around 20 trades a year would be considered pretty active. OK. You're doing 323 in five months. Yeah, so that's probably around like two trades a day or three fills a day. Your value is a multiple of everybody else's to the brokerage firm. Not just from the commissions you pay, but your longevity, meaning that you're going to last forever, and you're going to trade, and you're going to show somebody else how to do it. And you're going to have your kids doing it. So from just a little ways of like, it's time to now. It's new. Be careful. So from your seed, we might get 20 other pods, which is kind of nice. What do you think you want to do the half full of the half empty? Do I go to the winners and losers? Let's start with the winners first. OK. I thought the loser would be easier for you to pick, but what do you think was your best product? What stock do you think was the best? All together closed. Or still to date. To date right now. I think as of a couple hours ago. Do you can do it? No. No. SPY. SPY was your best by far. OK. You're up by, says right there, you're up by $550. That's about your best profit. What do you think was next? I'm up like $300 on Pandora. So I think it's OK. Well, I take the $550. Yeah, $550 is great too. What do you think was next? Obviously, you can probably see up there a little bit. I don't know if you want to. I don't know if you want to. I'm your correct. What do you think was your best stock? I'll give you a hint. It's not up there. My best stock. Better than Pandora. Really? Pandora, you got $189, by the way. Gold, maybe? Nope. Stock, stock, 90 TF. Oh. Apple. Oh, yeah, we had a greater earnings trade in Apple that we closed at Apple, like almost a full profit. That was a great one. What do you think was your worst stock? Boba or Win? Well, one and two. Boba Win. No, it's a third one. You know what your third one is? Um, I'm not sure. Amazon, right up there. Amazon, yeah. As soon as this Amazon trade, this will be probably my, my, my, Amazon's going to be your shield. Yeah, that'll be your, I'll shield that mine in the back pocket and remember that one and me. Stay away for a little bit. Okay. Well, it took me 15 years to stay away from shield. SHLD. It's only taking you five months to stay away from your worst stock. So that's pretty good. Yeah. All right. So let's, let's think about what we can do today. I look up on the board there and I see the highest buying power by far is in the diamonds. So when we open up the diamonds for a quick second, you basically have on a synthetic, well, it's almost like a straddle, right? I mean, the stock is at the perfect price, 74 and a half. You're short to 74 put just out of the money, the 75 call. So there's two things we can go here. You could make a very good argument with 15 days to go that maybe it's time to close this trade. Now I realize that your year day PNL is down $91, but that's probably from a lot of past trades you've had. It's probably been down a lot more in the diamonds than you are right now. Okay. The other thing is you got a low high, you got a low IV rank around the board. It's hard to put money to use. Not too much. I mean, by actually, we had a good back-of-force movement today, but the volume is light. I don't know if I want to, I don't know. I can't find another trade. So let's not enhance, but let's try to get that buying power lower so we can put something else on. Okay. Okay. So I'm going to start and I see your $10 away on your call spread, $175, $185, and your put spread is $20 away. So we're using a lot of buying power on that put spread. Now, when you put this trade on a month ago or a month and a half ago or rolling it and it's morphed into this trade, it was something like, I think we call it, what is it when we put on the call at the same strike, same delta, like a $20 delta, then we buy the wings that are like $10 delta and your put spread is always wider because the puts have skewed. Dynamic eye encounter or a dynamic fly. And this we've rolled the untested side and come back and we're left with this trade. So maybe we can buy a put that's $10 away, like somewhere around the $153 put or the $154 put. I'm sorry, that's $30 there. Yeah, $30. Maybe we can buy and we can pick up, you know, we can change our buying power by, you know, $1500 or $2,000. Okay. So it makes sense? Yeah. I mean, we won't be able to close those $143 because they're not, they're trading for a lot. Oh, we forget, they're long puts, we just forget about it. And they're trading for worthless. It's not even worth the commission to sell them. Exactly. Okay, let's go into the diamonds and see if we can pick up this buying power that we need. Okay. So you're going to go into February and you have to open up a bunch of strikes. Maybe a, I'm sorry, January, I said February, I apologize. Maybe make a hundred strikes or something. Okay, there's your two long 43s, right? No bid at four cents. Yeah. And you can see that all of them are five cents, six cents. Okay, well, the 53 put looks like four cents, seven cents. Let's put a, let's put a, well, let's put a, I want to get filled. So let's just do it. But when we go into like the 60s to make it, I mean, because like if we go to say the 54, we're only reducing it by a thousand two times twice a 2000. Okay. So that's, so now that gives us, that gives us $2,000 worth of a strangle to put on somewhere else. Okay. Right? Because the strangles that takes around $2,000 in buying power. Yeah. 15 hundred to 2000. I guess like the, because I was looking at like the, or thinking the 64 to make it a distance on both sides, but those are trading for, you know, three, three times. Relatively cheap, but three times as much. You're right. Let's try to buy two of these at six cents. See what happens. Okay. Because by two of these one fifty four puts at six cents. And it's end. Well, your bid all around the world right now. Changed it. Changed it instantaneously. Pretty powerful stuff. Yeah. Okay. So, you're trying to sell some puts at that three cents. Okay. You're bored. I got it. I'm bored too. Trying to get that one fifty. I'll take that. I get it. It's a couple of coffee star butts. I get it. Like an Americano that your dad likes to drink. If you ever wanted to bring them on someday. Okay. So, um, all right. So we'll try to buy those puts at six cents. Well, let's put, let's look at another, um, do you want to look at your SPY position? Which, if you look at your SPY position, you're down $36 right now with the E-min S and the P's down around $13.5. Bid away to the overall position. And you can close that up for a minute. You know, in your ETFs, at least the ones that we have, we're like leaning long non-stocks, neutral to long non-stocks, and short on your ETFs. When we rolled up those puts and now subsequently, the market's given up thirty handles on the E-min S and P's, you kind of lost those deltos. Yeah. You'll notice almost a hundred deltos over the last two days. Yeah. You've got a hundred fifty than a hundred and now you're basically even. Now, if we rally back to unchanged, you'll be short about fifty deltos. So it swings around because there's only two weeks left to expiration, fifteen days left to the front month. But you're getting a lot of short delta from that Amazon position, which is kind of a crappy position because Amazon actually has to go down about fifteen bucks before you're even in the ballpark. So I look at your overall position. I say, you know what? We were kind of aggressive with those SPY puts. We're really like long fifty at this point because you take away that Amazon. Pretty much. Yeah, I would say that. Agreed. All right. Okay. Well, let's go and SPY. We'll see if we can fill in those other ones if not. We'll move them. We've got about eight minutes left to the program. Tidnight's not around again today. So we'll be showing, I think he's doing a Star Wars trilogy today. Open up the January. And let's go down to the calls or up to the calls, however you want to consider it. Okay, you're short one of the 206 calls. You're short two of the 204 puts. Let's sell the 206 210 call spread. Okay. Okay. All I'm doing is I'm rolling down that 210 call. It's trading for around 40 cents. And I'm selling the 206 call that's trading around, you know, $1.75. I'm going to collect about a buck 35. Okay. Okay. And the last time we roll. So go up just a, yeah, and change probably within the mind to delta. So let's see what we've changed. What we're making this, like how many deltas are we picking up in SPY? We don't have to beta way to test PY because obviously this is SPY. So we're selling 40 delta. We're buying 15 delta. We're picking up 25 long short deltas short. Short deltas because we're selling 40 delta. We're buying 15 delta. We're buying up 25 short deltas. Work for you? Yeah. Okay. Let's do that. What were we long 20? It's $1.38. We were long about five. We'll make you short about 20. Okay. Okay. Going to $1.38 and we'll move it if we have to. Okay. Now let's take a look at the cues, which will be the money that we freed up when we buy those diamond puts. Yeah. Now we bought those diamond puts, let's just say for seven cents instead of six cents or eight cents, whatever we have to pay for it. We're going to take that $1,500 in buying power reduction and use it to put on a strangle where we can make significantly more over the next 50 days. Okay. Okay. Yeah, open up February. Now, since your overall portfolio is basically neutral, right? Yeah. We're going to pick up a little bit of short delta. This will lean you a little bit short delta also. Let's try to just go at a one standard deviation. Perfect. So before we do that, go to a chart of the cues. Now the IV rank is only 21 in the cues. Now it's come up from about 15 to 21, so volatility has risen. IV, I forward slash VX, the volatility has gone up also. It's 1865. So this number of 21%, and I don't want to, I don't want to fudge the number because it is what it is. It's not over 50%, but you notice it hasn't been over 50% until August and September. So it's about average for the last two or three months. Now I like to look at a longer time frame, like six months. Let's just maximize it to the end and it's a six month chart. Besides that August, if you throw out that August 17th area when the market made the big dip down, 21% is really about middle of the road for the cues. Now I don't know if that means it's compelling enough to make or not, but for us an hour portfolio, you just can fill it 138. For us an hour portfolio, I think it fits. You don't have a cue position. So we'll put something on real far in February. The meat or the real movement in your portfolio is going to be from the SPY position. You have 15 days, the diamond you have on from 15 days, and the IWM that you have on for 15 days. Okay. Not this trade. Yeah. Let's take a look at maybe like we can do the calls first. 17 Delta, we usually go to around a 16 Delta. That's the 118 call. How about the 118 call? And let's look at let's go to the puts, do the same thing. Go down a little bit more. Why are we going to the 102 puts? Okay. Squing it a little bit short by three Delta's. I don't think it's that big of a deal. All right. Okay. Let's go in at 130. We'll walk it down from there. We'll walk it down from there, but let's get filled on our puts first. Because I want to show you how you're buying power changes and everything. So let's go back to the monitor tab, what we have about three minutes or so. Change those puts to seven cents. If you could, you don't mind. Now filled. Okay. For the sake of demonstration of show, let's go up to eight cents and be filled on them. Okay. Hopefully be filled on. Okay. So you filled on them, you bought two them at eight cents. Go down a little bit further. Okay. So you buying power is $20,600 and it's taking into consideration. You getting filled on that strangle. Okay. So that strangle is probably... No, no, no, it's taking that into consideration already. In buying power. That's correct. When you route that order, it moves that money. So that strangle is probably around 2000 in buying power. $1,700 or something like that. There you go. $1,167. So if we get filled on that strangle, you basically, by buying those two puts at eight cents, freed up $1,700 of your own money a little bit more actually because I think it was your buying power reduction was 21,000 change. Yeah. It's only 20,000 change right now. So you freed up a little bit of your own money. It's like borrowing your own money. Yeah. For $16. For $16. For $16. That's correct. About a dollar a day. Yeah. Okay. So I'm going to replace this one and go down to $129 and see if we get filled. EMS and P's are down $12 cents. All right. And we'll leave it there. Did you go down to $129? Because I see $130. Maybe you're doing on the screen. Okay, perfect. Okay. Just leave it there at $129. Let's take a quick break here just to go over everything that we talked about. Look, $287. But I'll tell you what's becoming a little bit. Where you get a good mark in Amazon. Yeah. All right. Hold on a second. I'm going to get to Amazon mark. Open up Amazon for a quick second. Just see what it's doing. Lost down $11,000 in change. So let's look at a bad mark. You're getting close out of Amazon up for a minute. And by the way, Twitter is still down $1. Let's take a look at that. That was opa dollar. I'm sorry, still up a dollar. Yeah. Yeah. Good. That's the big thing. I mean, when Twitter goes off, everybody knows, all right? Believe me, I know. Close up Twitter for a second and open up XOP. Last one. Okay. Open up $0.80. Unbate away at that for a moment. Okay. And you're long 50 delta. You should be up about $40 on this. You see those 34 puts? Why do I say you should be up 40 bucks? Because if you have 50 delta and a stock, it's up $0.80. You should have half the move. All things being equal. You either got a good mark on those puts from the night before. Because those puts should be down by $0.50. You know, $0.60. Yeah. Right? I mean, the delta on them is basically $75, right? So they're going to move $75. $1. $1. Almost $1. $1. And they're not moving at all. I mean, they're moving small. Yeah. So you got a good mark from the day before. Or right now, you're just getting a bad mark. Okay. Does that make sense? I mean, nothing you do about it. Yeah. But when you go over your overall position, you take a look at it. Okay. All right. Let's say a quick break here to just talk about what we discussed today. First, we went over kind of like a review. You're rising. You had 323 fills. You traded 56 stocks. What do you think your win ratio was? It's got to be above 50 or 60%. I would think. Okay. You sell some credit. 73%. 41 wins. 15 losses. 73% win ratio. That's pretty amazing. Yeah. That's great. That is great. More to come in 2016. More to come in 2016. We did it. We bought that to at least $75. Let's make more money and keep it the same. Yeah, that's true. You did a Q-trade. Freed up some buying power in the diamonds and rolled down some SPY. Got aggressive on it because you were aggressive on your roll up. Once you're in, you're in. Good job out of you. Happy New Year, son. To you too. That's everybody else out there. Everybody else out there. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. No, Tim Knight Trilogy on Star Wars. Check this out. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Video: 059 - Creatively Reducing Buying Power 01 07 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it. You can go back. When I start, that versus bat. How are you son? Glad we rolled yesterday but it's a sea of red today. So you're glad, not only you're glad you rolled yesterday, you're glad you rolled every other day up until today too. I mean, you can't catch things perfectly. You can't believe me. Rolling hasn't, it saved you money but it hasn't made you money but it's a long fight. It's 43 days to expiration. Let's say we've got 30 more days of this to go. I mean, it's a battle. You're losing. But you're losing small battles. You haven't lost the war yet. Let's take a look at your overall account. And today's the worst day for you. You're down about 75% of your loss is all today. Meaning that of the $1100 that you're down, now it's $1200 even the S&Ps just made a low before we came on. EMS and P's are down 50 right now. They were down 42, about five minutes ago before we came on. So you've got about $1200, almost $900 of that loss is all today. And that's after rolling. And if you notice in IWM, it's the only ETF that you're positive in. And the only equity ETF that you're positive in. You had a little bit of short delta in there. Now listen, I don't anticipate six, seven percent moves in a week in the market. Like I fade those. I play against those, which means you're playing against those. Because they only happen about 16% of the time if it's that high. So I can't play for that. So when it happens, I'm going to take it on the chin a little bit and you are too. So now we have to think about something. Your problem is a little bit different than my problem. Your problem is you're using almost $26,000 in buying power. And you only have a $30,000 account. So you've got to find, you've got a creative way, either borrow the money from somebody and put it in your account. If you want to put on new trades. You've got a more. You got a left. I have a little left. You have a little left. You know that. That doesn't put it all out there all the time. You know that. So let's find, let's what I want to do today is I want to bait away your position if we could for a quick second. Now you've been, by the way, your account was down $150. Yeah, when the E-M-S-A-P's were down 20. And it's down. This is about as low as I've seen it down almost $900 with the E-M-S-A-P's on their lows. Okay. And volatility on their highs. Valtteri up $3 today. That's another almost 15% or 16% trading 23 and a half. Before we came on the show, you said to me, I'd love to have more money to put on, you know, more trades, you know, but I'm stuck now. But we sold volatility because why? Because it was high. Yes it was. And it was higher the day before than it was the day before that. And you sold it each day. Now you're limited. That's what we were talking about. It's easier or more opportunistic when you have a larger account to make money than it is in a smaller account. Because now you can't ramp it up because you don't have the money available in your account. So we got to find a creative way to get that money. Now it's going to be a give and take, but I'll show you what we're going to do. All right, you're long about 270 deltas. You've been long anywhere between 100 and 217 deltas, which we have right now with the EME SPs just about on the daily lows. Yesterday I was like long 80 or last year. You were long around 180 at the end of the day and we got 100. I have you on the road. So that role saved you $400. A hundred deltas, EME SPs or S&Ps are down $4, SPUI is down $4. It equates to about $400. So about half or a third, a little bit more than a third of your loss, it would have been greater. You'd be down $1500 or more. It's big. It's real big. So you got to kind of find a little bit of silver light because it's not over today. It's not like they're going to take all your positions away and you're going to move on. This is an exploration. It's the middle of it. All right, awesome. Let's go into the top of the board and let's go to the diamonds. Let's go into the trade page of the diamonds. Now you have a high implied volatility everywhere. So rolling, rolling from January to February, if that's what you needed to do, you don't have any January positions. You're long enough to have the money call. You don't need that. We would want to roll. And again, why don't we go to the Analyze tab? So in short, what you have in, you don't have to show it yet because I know how we have it loaded, but I would tell everybody. The diamonds are trading around $165. They're short, the 167 puts, which we had rolled a few days ago. Remember when you were wrapped around 171 on the diamonds, you had a 171 straddle on, and we rolled out to the following month, meaning February, and we widened our strikes. And I think we paid about $0.80 debit to do that. I don't know if you tweeted that or that. What's that? I think we're like, I thought it was more. I thought it was like $1.70? It could be. I've done so many trades. You might be right. I don't know. I don't know. But we went from one month to the next month, and we widened our strikes. Yeah, we went down eight strikes on the money. We went down eight strikes. Correct. So we saved yourself more money. Yeah. By all I'm trying to show you is, listen, it stinks, but we're doing the right mechanical things. And eventually, you'll get paid. You just got to stick with it. Yeah. You can't lose faith and you have to keep moving on. But now we have an applied volatility that's extremely high. Higher than it's billless. I want to find some buying power for you. OK, so we have, and I want everybody at home to keep these numbers in mind. You're long 67 deltas. I'd like to get that as close to zero as possible. SPY deltas and diamond deltas are almost the same. So if you were to get this to zero, you would change your overall deltas from long 220 to probably long about 170 or something like that. OK. You reduce it by about 25%. I mean, I want to get less aggressive with your reducing, because we've reduced it already from much higher levels. Yeah. OK. Your buying power is 8,000 in this position. So we've got to get that number lower. How could we get that number lower? We got to get wings, because all the January longs aren't doing anything to reduce the buying power because January longs are not helping you at all. They won't help you intro months, January to February. You have to have something in February. So you're just short to 67 puts and you're short to 173 calls. And it's taken about $4,000 per contract on those. So we have to reduce that somehow. The only way that you can reduce that is how? Is buying the wings out of the... Buy in the wings or getting out of one. Yeah. I'm not interested in getting out of one. So let's buy the wings. So let's scroll down just a little bit if you could. James, all right, perfect. So we're going to buy the 185 call two times, because we have two of the calls. And we're going to buy two of the 140 puts. Now we're in the analyze tab right now. So I want you to look at the upper right hand corner where it says buying power effect. Click on buying that strangle for me. OK, it reduces it from 8,000 to 5,300. About 26 or 2700 bucks. OK. Yeah. That's good. I mean, that's 2600 bucks to 2600 bucks, right? You do. It's right. OK, so let's send that. $0.55 is the mid price. Let's go into $0.55. And if we don't get filled at $0.55, please move it by a penny or two. I'll see your buying power where the audience will see your buying power change. We don't get filled immediately. You even go up two cents. I just want to get filled on it just to have it done. Now in the diamonds, the markets are a little bit wider, like even in some of these out of the money options. And we've seen that before earlier on in this. It's not like SPY. SPY is a much better product to trade than the diamonds. Because you just, I don't know, it's not like it's not. I mean, we call it slippage. And maybe it is slippage, but it's give up to mid price. Now when your dad used to be on the floor and you just got filled, he actually went up to $59. Well, OK. Well, it's $8. I mean, it stinks. No, no. Go on a price. Listen, it stinks. It's two contracts versus, you know, 20 contracts or 40 contracts or 50 contracts. Oh, you're a real big dog now. Yeah, 20 contracts, 40 contracts. Why not? 50 contracts. Yeah, 50 contracts. Why not? Big dog here. Top dog. All right. Back in the day, you dad used to trade $3,500 contracts a day. So yeah, sure. It's not a problem. All right. So we bought that. We reduced your buying power down to $5,400 from $8,000. OK. Now, we didn't do anything really to reduce your delta. This is just a free up buying power. So the mechanical thing to do whenever we have a strangle on is to what? To roll the calls. We'll roll the untested side with the E-mini S and with the diamonds down 360 points. It's the calls. The volatility increasing will help us here, right? I mean, we'll give us. It'll, yes. You'll get a higher price, but it's not helping you because your account is down. Yeah, my account is down because of it. OK. So let's sell the 170, 173 call spread. You short the 167 puts. Stock is 165.5. We're a little bit in the money on the put. I say sell the 170 call. And we're running out of time. You can just whatever it is going to 105 and then change it to 104, whatever. Just change it and get filled because I just want to for the show. I just want to get it done. I say do the 170 and I'll tell you why. The 170 has a 30 delta. We've got 43 days to go yet. I don't think you need to be so inverted yet. I look at it as like this. Would you be comfortable having a covered call on in the diamonds? If you were bullish on the diamonds. Would you be comfortable having a covered call on in any stock if you were bullish on the stock? I mean, yes. Right? I mean, if you're bullish, it's a bullish port. OK. Well, having a short put, which is basically a stock substitution and having short calls at the 30 delta, having short puts that are in the money and having short calls at the 30 delta, is a covered call. So by rolling down, that's basically a covered call. So you've got to fill that 103. OK, awesome. We still haven't changed our buying power. So it hasn't done anything to us. Now your theta decay is about eight. I believe when we started, it was more around 10. So a little bit lower. But now we have more, we have more, we created buying power and we're reducing some of the delta. We've cut it about half right now. OK? Yeah. All right, so let's make a new trade. OK. So we're going to add a little bit more. Let's sell the 170, 185 call spread and let's sell the 153, 137 put. So this is kind of what we did in SPY a couple days back. That's correct. The call is a little bit closer, not much, a little bit closer because we already rolled down those calls. So we already reduced delta a little bit but I want to reduce a little bit more. Let's click it and see what it does to the overall portfolio. OK. If we got filled on this, you'd go from long about, what did say, about 60 delta, 58 delta something to about 16. OK. That's huge. OK, you're buying power 7000 and we've actually saved ourselves a thousand dollars in buying power. We've made our theta decay go from 10 or 11 to 14. We've reduced directional risk and we already have a bullish portfolio. Now listen, if the E-man is a piece or up 60 points tomorrow, well, this part of your portfolio won't do as well. If I'll tell you it'll contract, you'll probably do OK. But the rest of your portfolio, which is the meat of it, this is only one product of the two, is going to catch on fire. It's going to be great. Cool. All right, so let's sell this spread it, Rebyecan, Mid Price and then you can always cancel and replace it and change it later on. All right, let's take a quick break here and go over everything that I tried to accomplish today. What we were looking for is I think a situation that a lot of people are in today that have been trying to just trade and sell volatility. When a market moves 6, 7, 8, 10%, a very short period of time, you're going to accumulate long deltas. How else can you get long when something is going, how else can you buy when something is going, when something is low price and sell when something is high price, except doing it by selling premium. Now, when it gets too much your delta, you have to reduce it. We found a creative way how to find about $3,000 in buying power without using more buying power in your account. Now, you did increase your contract size by one more. So I got three in there now. Three in there, three in the SPY. But you're supposed to ramp it up on volatility gets high. I'm a three lot Tony. Who comes up next? I'm Tim Knight. Peace.
Video: 060 - This Is Why We Roll 01 08 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Nick, you're back. When I start, that versus that. How are you today, son? I'm doing okay. Okay. Yeah. Alright, so, alright, so before we take a look at your account, which is probably at the lows of the day for you with E-Maniac S-A-P's down three NASDAQ up 10, down down 38, after the Dow was up 250 points earlier today, and you coming in a little bit bullish, well, a little bit bullish actually, a lot bullish in your account. About a hundred and thirty deltas when we first came in this morning, it's probably grown a little bit. We'll take a look at it in a second, but I want to dedicate this show to why we roll, because the last couple of days have been some heat, some heat full days in your account. And every time I've said to you, and I know you know why we roll, I get it, but I don't know if you see the benefits of rolling, because a lot of times we've rolled and the stock's gone the other way, and we kind of twist ourselves in the wind is what I would call it back in the day, and then the weeks move on, the weeks become, days become weeks, the weeks move on, and you don't know or see the benefit of rolling. Now a lot of the rolling trades that you've made have actually been quite beneficial to your account, but it's hard to see. Let's take a look at your account. When your account's down $1200 for the year so far, so I think you kind of lose, you lose focus on why we do what we do. So before we take a look at the rest of your account and what's to go on, let's bait away it since we're here for the moment. I think you'll own about a hundred eighty deltas, a hundred eighty five deltas. You've got a fifty theta decay, which is actually quite large with only forty some or days left to expiration, and you're using that twenty five thousand dollars of buying power. We've been wrapped around that number for quite some time now. All right. I want to go to the account statement tab if I can for a moment. Let's go to IWM first if we could. If you had SPY, it was fine. Okay, so I want to look at just the last few trades that we've made this year, because the really the trouble for you, your account closed twenty fifteen on an all time I. Yeah. A hundred dollars away from an all time I. Now you're you've kind of given all of it or most of it back. Let's take a look at somehow some of these roles have done. Let's look at what that first trade is. Like let's right click on that trade that you did for four dollars and fourteen cents credit. Can we do that and create duplicate order will it come up in the same screen? Okay, yes. All right. So it's two dollars and forty four cents. So you did it for four dollars. Don't unclick it next time. Okay. You did it for four dollars and fourteen cents. That's a hundred and fifty bucks that you put in your pocket. I get rid of the it by the role. Let's just do it. All right. Let's let's get it. You sold those one of three puts. Let's click on and see what those are doing. Those are about a hundred and thirty dollar loss. Let's get out of those. Let's go into the customer we paid seven hundred and six dollars for this role. It's trading fourteen dollars and fifty cents. You made seven hundred dollars on that role. So far your account would be down almost seven hundred dollars more net net on just these small trades. Let's get rid of that for a moment. We can go to the strangle for twenty cents is neither here nor there. It's probably go ahead. You could do it if you want. It's fifty five cents. I mean you know three times it's another you know another seventy five bucks. Okay delete that. Let's go into SPY since you had up there a moment ago. Let's go to the vertical spread that you just did today. We could take a look at if you want. I think it's up about twenty bucks from where you sold it. The Dow was actually a little bit higher. Okay. So you have twenty bucks. That was just really a delta reduction rolling down the untested side. Preferably in strength. This was the first time we've had an uptick in the market. Okay. Let's go to the iron condo that you sold for a dollar fifty one. See what that's doing. Five sixteen. Okay. Let's go the four cent option of three cents seven cents. So we don't care. Let's go to that double diagonal three dollars and fifty seven cents. You sold it for three dollars and fifty seven cents at seventy three cents or sixty cents. You're up three dollars. You're up in a thousand dollars. So instead of being down twenty twelve hundred dollars you'd be down two thousand two hundred dollars. All right. Let's go into the diamonds because you've done that more. And we can go to the other ones or all that would be profitable too. Let's go to the diamonds. Okay. Let's look at the iron condo of the assault from the other day. Three thirty seven. It's three oh nine. It's an opening trade for you. So what I want to show you is even though you're taking you know four steps or five steps or six steps back you are taking two three four steps forward to and eventually I'm going to get to volatility. I'm going to talk about for a moment. Eventually the volatility contracts a little bit and if the market stays the same or goes higher would be even better if you could have long dealt as you're going to benefit greatly and I'll explain to you for a moment. Okay. Delete that one for a moment. I forgot where we were the one or three. Okay. Okay. Ninety one cents. Let's go to some of the ones that we that double diagonal down the bottom he did for a five cent debit. Let's see what's going on with that. Okay. You paid five cents for this. Unclick it for a moment. It's trading two hundred and seventy five dollars or two two hundred seventy dollars. Whatever you want to say. All right. So you would have been if you hadn't done the mechanical things that we talked about you be doubt twice as much as what you are now. You'd also have twice as large delta if you're comfortable with that. All I'm trying to show you is and as a new trader you can't take yourself out of the game. Now the market would have gone the other direction which we hoped it did. You saw your account in the morning was up about six hundred bucks. Six hundred bucks. You know, you know, you were disappointed that we were rolling. Like you were disappointed when we were playing football when we would punt. You know, you can't sometimes you you always fight from strength but sometimes you've got to say, okay, I'm being I'm getting beaten. I mean, listen, I'm not only did it the best. You know, he went into a rope or do. But I don't know if you remember. He just went into a position where he let the other guy, George Foreman, just punch himself out and he stood on the ropes for I think about seven or eight rounds. The greatest boxer of all time not throwing any punches to let the other guy kind of wear himself out and then he ends up, you know, kicking his butt in the last three or four rounds. Sometimes you have to play offense by playing a little bit of a ball. Offense by playing a little bit of defense. You give up a little bit of that upside so you can keep your doors open because eventually if you just stay, hey, I have this conviction, I'm going to run with it with 45 days to go, you know, you don't you don't last. The whole thing about this game over time, the way we trade, somebody sent me an email was a great email. It reminds me of an old quote from from a long time ago. They said something to the effect of, you know, premium buyers have great great stories, much better stories than premium sellers, but premium sellers drive better cars. You have to stay in the game. You have to keep the doors open. All right, let's go into just for a quick second. Look at SPY for a moment and I'm talking to Tom. I'm sorry, let's go into a chart. I'm sorry. Everybody's sending me a lot of emails that, you know, volatility is staying bit. Foward slash VX actually is bit right now. It's $23.50. Perfect. Thank you very much. But it's not reflected in the IV rank of SPY. Let's go back to SPY for a quick second. Now we've got a script and other people have had it too. It's not something that's like new from yesterday. It's been around for a couple of months and I know about what we're looking at is as an IV rank, we want to take all the numbers from the year, the 252 days and then say, okay, this implied volatility that we have right now, how high is it? Not as an average, which is around the 39% IV rank, but relative to itself, meaning if the volatility is always around 25 in here, but you have a couple of days where volatility, IV, not IV rank, monthly, and high volatility goes to 80, the next time it goes to 25, it's going to skew that IV rank number. So SPY right now, 232 days out of 252 days are below today's current IV, monthly implied volatility. So the implied volatility is very, very high and SPY is the same in the diamonds, the same item. You're not getting paid on any volatility contraction in your account. So those days of $50, $50, $50, $50, $50, you're only getting 10 of those dollars, 20 of those dollars, sometimes not any, when volatility expands. That's all going to come in at some point, hopefully, in the future. So we have to just keep setting and setting and setting. So now that I gave you my whole speech about all of our roles, you looked at your account and you said that oil is a little bit higher today, right now it's down about 17 cents. Let's take a look at one position that you have. Let's look at Twitter and then let's look at XOP and then we'll go to Twitter. Open up February. Okay, you're short, the 34 straddle, the stocks 28. XOP has a relatively high implied volatility. There are 42 days left. The call that you're short is 25 cents. What do you want to do? You want to do nothing? You want to keep it? I mean, we could go inverted. I don't know how far down we have to go inverted, but in that same thinking with the volatility, it's probably high in here too. So I mean, it might be, we might want to take advantage of that now and just, you know, commit to going inverted on it. Okay, so let's back up for a quick second. A lot different position than what you have in SPY. It's not $127 stock, it's $27 or $28 stock. You have one contract, not three contracts. So you could make the argument of staying put. But I agree with you. And we've done that for two months. Well, it hasn't had an uptick. You're right. Oh, why? I mean, we've been staying put on it. Well, we've sold a call against it each time we were naked, put this and how this all worked. I mean, in XOP, you're down $160. Let's just save you down $200. The stock is $28 if it's above $30, you get back to even. So then let's go to the $30. We go into the $30, not because of how much money you're down because the market doesn't care about how much money you're down to this. We're going to the $30 strike because it has a probability of being in the money of around $30. Yeah, the $30. Let's sell the $30, $34 call spread. Cool. So before we click this for $7.09, I have a question for you, which brings you really up to around $31. Right? I mean, you don't, you don't, you maximize your profit up to around $30.78 with this role. Before we click this button, how do you feel about this role after our conversation that we had today? What do you mean? Well, this is the same thing it did to me when you were playing football. Yeah. I just gave you a great RR speech on why we should roll. How confident are you, which is confident in it. I mean, I think we're taking it. But don't it, just a touch. I mean, I didn't understand what you were trying to, like, how do you feel about this? I don't know. It stinks that it's not at $34 right now. That's how I feel. But you got to take advantage. So let's do it. It's going to $70.10. See what happens. You can move it down when we're done with this. Okay. Oh, you got felt. Good. $7.08. Wow. Oil must be getting really bit up. I'm just kidding you. All right. Let's take a quick break and talk about what we went over today. What I tried to show you was why we roll and the benefits of rolling. Because we always, it's so easy to look at the trades that don't work for you. Because you look at the bottom line and forget about the mechanical process. I think you'd be a lot worse off if you were just carrying all those long deltos over these last few days. As opposed to, listen, not fun. Slowly getting chopped down. But you're in the game. You're two, three days of a rally and volatility contraction to being up for the year. You're close for that, yeah? Yeah. Yeah. My account needs a lot more than yours. Who comes up next? Yeah. Tim and I next. Peace.
Video: 061 - Staying In The Game 01 11 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back to the next episode. Nick, you're back. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat. How are you, son? Okay. Happy Monday. Happy Monday. It's good to be back. It's good to be back. Is it good to be looking at your account? No, not just good as I would like it to be. Do you realize that the E-Mini S&P futures open on Sunday at five o'clock, central standard time? Yeah, I see it on my Twitter feed. Did you happen to look at them, see what they were doing, or anything like that? Just curious. I know I didn't ask you this beforehand. Well, I don't ask you anything. They were up for some of the portion that I was... Okay, go ahead. Did I saw them? They were down early, between five and nine o'clock at night. They were down, actually down significantly, about an hour after they were open by about 15 or 15 handles or so. Do you ever look on, like, theo price to see what your account is doing, meaning theo, the app that we have? No. It's not bad. You should take a look at it. It takes into consideration the overnight move, waits your overall position, it tells you how much you were down. And it showed you down around $400 at the lows of the market. Let's see how you're doing today so far with the E-Mini S&P's down six and a quarter. You're down about $80. How much were you down at the worst part of the day, do you remember? A couple hundred, I think, when it was down. About $35,400. Yeah. Yeah, that's about what theo showed, too. All right, so you're down $1600 for the year stinks. I mean, there's no way that there's no way to sugarcoat it. Let's bet away your overall portfolio. I just didn't expect us to be down 1% a day every day this year so far. Yeah. Again, I don't know who could play for it, but I guess somebody did, right? The 5% a day in oil is really where I'm getting hurt the most. Yeah, you're actually... Every day it's down $1 and change. Yeah, you're down $75 and XO P14 XLE, another 50 just about an X, another 36 in the USO. I mean, was that almost 200 bucks right there, right? And you're down 90 for the day. So your equity position is kind of holding OYH, another one for 60 bucks. And when we talked about getting leveraged in oil and by leverages, I spent a lot of correlated positions. Plus, it's correlated to the equity position, which is also long. So you're like long, long, and wrong. Yeah. Yes. I mean, oiled down almost 6% right now, down $1.84, trading 31, 32. They're going to start paying me to take it. They are going to start paying you to take it. Here's some oil, take it for free. Okay. All right, so what do you want to do? I mean, we don't have a lot of money to play with. You're right. We've got, we're using 25,000 out of 30, right? Mm-hmm. Okay. So, well, let's go into... Let's go into XO P real quick and see. And I think we're going to find ourselves back into the equities. Open up February and XO P when you get a chance. And change, thank you. Okay. So, you look like an XO P, you're short and in the money put, which is the 34 put, and you already sold down the 30 call. Mm-hmm. Okay. What now? Stocks down to the $20. You can roll it down again to the 30, the 30 Delta Strike. Go to the call, I mean, to the 28. That's correct. You could do that, pick up around $0.55. I mean... Let's look at a chart of XO P just to show everybody at home who hasn't played what is done. All right, it's now 15% in the last 10 days alone. It's gone from 38 to 26. Could it go down to, from 38 down to 20 in the next couple days? Mm-hmm. Yeah, sure can. Ivy rank is high, so it warrant doing something. I can't roll down anymore. Yeah. So with 39 days to go, you almost reach a point of no return. I mean, you're small enough, so you're good. If you want to sell, you know, a spread in another spread like an iron condor or something like that in February, I'd be all for it. But it's a neutral position. Okay, let's go to XLE. You can stay right where you are. And the chart should update at the same time so you won't have to go back to it. Okay, in XLE, looks like you're short and in the money put spread and you're short of further out of the money call spread. You don't have to go to it. It's the 6770. Yeah. Okay, so you could roll down to what strike? Now this is a defined risk trace, a little bit different. You'd have to go to make like an iron fly at the 63. That's correct. So you could go all the way down to the 63, which brings in about 10 cents. And it says 18 cents, but you've got to buy the, so what could you do? Yeah, it's nothing. So that was like a no brainer, right? Your hands are tied so you can do nothing. Okay, perfect. Oh, let's look at X. X is another stock down 28 cents. I think this is the lowest X has been, I don't know, since you're trading it at least for you. We're going to do a chart of it real quick. Okay, down 21% in the last 10 days alone making a new low today, 669. IV rank is high. Let's go, let's go into X. So it checks all the boxes. Let's see what we could do. It's only using around 900 hours worth of buying power. It looks like you're short to nine put the 10 put and you're very short to nine call and the 10 call. Okay, what do you do here? I mean, we could roll down to like the eight for the calls and go inverted, but... Take both of them down to the eight. Yeah. So you'd be picking up 16 cents and 25 cents. It's another one that's like not. So it just comes to like, do I want the delta? Do I want the 25 cents? The smart thing is probably to take the 25 cents. The stubborn thing is probably to stay with the delta and that's where I tend to be today. Only because of 15% moves, 20% moves in such a short period of time. I want to sell something into strength. You did that today in the diamonds when you rolled down very early in the day, you rolled down. But it moved quickly. Okay, all right, let's go into the USO. I mean, then with the rest of our portfolio, it doesn't really make sense to go... You know, to adjust one of these and not... Don't worry about it. The option guys were making you pay because even the S and P's are down 10 now. That was down 38 when we came on and even the S and P's were down 5. Wonderful. Okay, so what do you have in the USO? You have a short naked put and a long call spread. We call this the scooped, right? The scooped. Okay, so what could you do here? It fits. If it's our portfolio right now. What could you do? Roll down the 10 call, the 10 they have called to the 10 and pick up, you know, 15, 17 cents. Yeah. Commissions. Yeah, so you kind of stock, right? I'm okay. That's a long call spread, so we might just... We already paid for it. You could sell the long call spread if you wanted to. I mean, you know. Yeah. I mean, you know, what do you get? 15, 16 cents. Yeah. Commissions, you net 12. Yeah. It doesn't make any sense. Okay, perfect. All right. OIH will be your last one in the oil sector. Okay, so in OIH, you short the 28 put, you short the 30 call. Certainly doesn't help you anymore. What could you do here? This one we could pick up some Delta because that call is basically... It's nothing. It's nothing. So, I mean, we could go straight into like the... I guess you could go to the 24 or the 25. It's correct. I mean, they're both... Certainly, rather do it into strength, right? It's down 66 cents. I'd rather do that when it's up 66 cents. I get it. You have a lot of correlated positions in oil. You have a lot of Delta's in oil. We've went through all the positions that you have. We're to the last position of all the one last trade that you have on. Of all the ones that you have, this is probably the best one for you in your portfolio. Yeah. And somebody else's portfolio with the positions they have, it might be different. Let's look at the IV rank at OIH. I'm sure it's being... Let's see what OIH has done over the last 10 days. All right, here's another one. Down 15% making a new low today. IV rank is 80%. I mean, but it made a new low on Friday. Yeah. It made a new low on Thursday. It made a new low on Wednesday. And it flirted with a new low on Tuesday. So, I mean, you can't... You held. I mean, you gave it what you could. So it's almost like, you know, I want to reduce Delta. I want to do it somewhere. I think OIH is probably your best case. Okay. All right, let's go into the trade page of OIH. What do you sell? The 24? 30 or the 25? 30. I mean, we're pretty long. So I guess going to the 24 is going to give us some... Fight me? The most. It's Delta. Reflection. I mean, it's marginal. I mean, on the grand scale of things. But... It is marginal on the grand scheme. Yes. Okay, let's sell the 24. 30. Let's go into 89 cents and we'll let it rest if we don't get filled. Okay, awesome. All right. So hopefully that'll eventually get filled. Okay, so now we've got to do... We've got to look at some other things because you've got 250 or 60 long Delta's. A little bit too much. And that's after selling a put spread. I think it was $3 wide, $3 wide, $3 contract put spread in the diamonds early this morning. That's probably saving you about $75. Which is significant. Yeah. Okay, all right, great. Again, it's just, you know, keeping it all, keeping the dream alive. All right, so for the sake of time, because we only have a couple of minutes left, it's either IWM or the Q's. Let's go into both. We already have a ton in IWM, so I'd rather go to the Q's. Okay, you make a great point. Yeah. Oh, but February for a quick second. Because we have three. Okay, that's fine. We're sure on time. You're right. We have three contracts in IWM. And in the Q's, we just have an iron condor. Okay, an iron condor. Okay, so what would you do? Again, prefer to do this in strength. You have 250 long Delta's. Can't do into strength. Your hands are tied. You're looking for the best thing that you can do. What do you look to do? You only have $5,000 to use. Yeah, I mean, we could go with another iron condor, just have the calls closer to at the money. Did it pick up that short? We certainly could. That would be more of a neutralish thing or sell a call spread, right? Yeah, or just the call spread could be the way to go. But we want to go close to the money. It's your dollar. What do you want to do? You see the point I'm trying to make here and for everybody else out there, there is no wrong answer. If you do an iron condor and volatility contracts and the stock doesn't move that much, you make money. If you sell a call spread and the stock doesn't move that much, and volatility contracts, you make money. The only thing when iron condors, you have risk on both sides. All right, I mean, let's stick with the call spread then. Okay, let's do the $171.10. We'll go $3 wide. That's what our research shows. Go to the fair. Best bank fee of buck around the 30%. Looks like it's trading for around 90 cents. Is that okay? It's a blast an idea, but I mean... That's an idea, but we sold off a little bit. Yeah. Let's go up at 92 cents or something like that. Let's just go higher. And then you can adjust it after the show is over. Now hold on a second. Go back to that. One time ain't going to help you. Let's do it two times. Okay. You're going to help you that much more, but... Yeah. It brings you to three contracts, which is what you have in IWM and what you have in the diamonds. Okay. You're good? Cool. Okay. It confirms send and send. All right, let's take a quick break and go over everything that we talked about today, at least what we went over. Where are we at now? It's like what now, right? I mean, so you go through all of your positions, the one that are really, really hurting you. You've made a way into your position, IWM, and SPY are your two biggest. We decided to go into the cues, because you said, I don't have a lot in the cues. Let me go there. You're using about $1,000 worth of the $5,000 in buying power reduction that you have. I'm looking to pick up short delta, and you try to roll down it. We'll try to roll down the OAH calls. All you can do is just keep moving forward. Okay. Good job, Adieu. Who comes up next? Peace.
Video: 062 - Maximizing Roc 01 12 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back. Where do I start that versus bad? How are you son good? I look a little prettier today. They put makeup on me for the YouTube Rapper's kids. I feel like you're still living on yeah, just take it off You're saying about me. Yeah, you always look pretty. You know what else looks pretty. Oh You're gonna do a good segue too. Yeah, you're up 150 bucks. Let's not have any Let's not have any parties here. Okay, still down 1175 dollars almost 1200 bucks for the year You were down around 1600 at one point At one point today you are up around 550 dollars earlier this morning when oil was up like 30 cents oil was up like 30 cents Yeah, even the S&P's trade up to 1940 about $20 higher than where they are 19 20 right now I know you got a couple of field orders. Can we take a look at those real quick? So it looks like out of the gate you roll down some IBM I WM calls yeah, that works 78 cents. That's that spreads probably trading at 45 or 50 cents already. I mean that's not a good thing I mean you don't want to make money on your roll down But it was it was selling into strength. It's one of the first times that you've had a chance to sell into strength And you've been mechanical with your roll down listen. We roll down two ways Typically and hopefully into strength like you had today you're carrying some long deltas market rallies You roll down those calls that were trading for around 50 cents to something that's around that 30 delta option You leave the untested side you still have long delta you hope that I WM gets up to that 108 call because Your put is has a lot larger delta or your position has a lot larger delta than that small little hedge that you put on there But that's selling into strength the other way that we that we that we roll mechanically is when that call or that put has no more We're very little extrinsic value left You got to roll down and use that capital especially in a smaller account like your account You have to be a lot more active It's harder to make money in a smaller account than it is in a large account We sell it all the time only because you have to do things like roll down positions as opposed to adding to positions or Finding new positions because you limited to the amount of capital you're using and using almost all your capital All right, GME I mean listen, you're doing the right things. I mean you bought back I think you sold that at 250 something we made like 60 70 bucks on it 60 70 dollars on it and the stock has had a wild run today was up a couple of dollars was down to an a Yeah, the last one point you close. I think that's part trading around two dollars and 20 cents So you're doing the right things you're being mechanical, but you're not getting paid enough yet But it comes you got to stay the course. I mean this is a long race since the first week of the year a second week of the year It's a long race You're behind yeah, what are they what are we used to say on the floor? We say something like the new season isn't Is it living up to my expectations the way we started, but it's not how you start the race It's how you finish the race right yeah, all right with that in mind. I want to look at two other things today Let me see your canceled orders just to see what you tried to do there Okay, so that's that's the Pandora one that we've been I want to talk to you about that. That's the box I want to talk to you about that and then TLT I think you had the right idea. I mean bonds up almost two points up at the point 26 today You were trying to get out of your puts bread that you had on you had a profit nice profit around 30 bucks or so You were trying to get to about 60 bucks 70 bucks out of it all right We got 38 more days. We'll stay with the duration if it sits right here You'll be profitable at the end of the expiration, but it's a debit spread so our risk is already in there It's defined hard to make money with a debit spread than it is with selling premium It's a 5050 shot as opposed to premium which is basically 70 30 your way in most cases just rounding yeah depending on the Strikes you use okay, all right so stay in the course Let's paint the scenario you just freed up about six or seven hundred bucks in that GME go to GME for just a quick second and I want to explain to everybody why I think it was and I am sorry I meant the trade page, but that's fine You can stay there for a second you can see GME has had a big range already today But let me explain to you why I think I'm closing the GME and going someplace else is better open up GME for a minute And go down a February Although the markets are okay, they're not great look at those 29 calls 88 $1.35 $6106 the put 64 cents 92 cents are you put on a trade looking for something to do you have a profit in it It's around your target as good as you would want, but something there You're you're a rest of your portfolio is kind of crappy ring the register move on free up that buying buying power to do something else Now you you freed up about seven or eight hundred dollars. I want to use a little bit of that money that you freed up and put it to work Try to get that Money sitting on a table, okay? Use do something to find rest so we're gonna have to do something to find rest now volatility is coming a little bit Let's go into forward slash vx for a moment It's down about a dollar twelve today And since you weren't able to read my mind I did mean a chart this time It's a little bit but still relatively high right? I mean relative meaning over the last couple of months It's still in the high right of its range so putting on new trades certainly works. Let's stay right where you are and go into SPY Now why do I say SPY because SPY or IWM? They're the most liquid in the tightest markets Q's are good to not my favorite I prefer SPY or IWM Diamonds are good to certainly my least favorite of all them just because the markets well instead of being a penny or two wide There are four cents wide three cents five cents wide that kind of thing so I like to stay in SPY All right 32% IV rank Typically low it's still in that well I'm gonna explain it well for you But the implied volatility that we have an SPY right now and by the implied volatility I mean the monthly implied volatility of around 21% 21.63 Is the higher end it's down at the bottom There you go is in the higher end not just in the higher end. It's about About 220 days The VAL has been lower the monthly implied volatility has been lower than that 2160 that we have right now so apply volatility's high the IV rank is in a 32% That's because make that spread the make that chart a little bit wider That's just because we had that big bump in August there where volatility got up to around a hundred percent or so Now I'm not discounting that I'm not trying to make a story or anything else like that but it is what it is Yeah, you have to compare it against the rest of the range I mean if you if you took out that one little that one little blip you'd be I mean you just like you said you'd be in the 220 of the days with volatility was lower than where it is right now so you haven't missed the boat anywhere Be certainly not selling the highest volatility all right. Let's go and SPY All right, so you said it yourself I think you have to open up a couple more strikes Maybe like okay perfect all right, so you said it yourself We're gonna have to so since since volatility is high remember you've got a to new show you've been doing this for about six months Yeah, that's six months. Okay, a lot of people watching that have never done this before or are doing it You're at your max limit on your position sizing because you're Basically out about yeah, I had about four grand left and buying power. Yeah, okay, so your handcuffed You're looking for defined risk trade. What's the best use of capital for a defined risk trade? I mean if you're gonna consider return on capital probably be an iron condor End of end of story Yes, I mean like because you're selling on both sides. You're taking credit in from both sides Okay, and if you're keeping the same width you're not doing any Any more risk than if you were just selling a put spread or a call spread You have risk on both sides risk on both sides, but the potential risk the return on capital like you said is absolutely the best with With a higher probability of success. Yeah, so you're exactly right go ahead give me an iron condor Please take in mind go back to the monitor tip for a quick second I'm sorry. I should have made you do this and beta-weight it I think you're long at this level about 200 shares of SPY The 208 shares at your highest Meaning at the markets highest earlier this morning that took a quick look at your accounts count I think you were long around 110 SPY Delta's so you're still gonna carry those SPY Delta's even if we rally another 1520 Handles in the many S&Ps. Okay, go back to SPY now you know everything that I know But I mean with it with an iron condor we're not gonna pick up a lot of Delta either way you're right so If we're gonna play I mean right now, you know, we spoke about the volatility if we're gonna play volatility we can go with like a neutral Iron condor and play volatility rather than Trying to take a Delta Direction don't stop now you're fine. Okay, so what do you got? So let's start with the 30 Delta's we'll we'll sell this 30 Delta's on each side Don't tell them a strike So we're looking at the 185 How wide you're gonna go Let's see We'll have to bring it in to get a dollar so Let's go into What's research says the best best bang for your buck the three dollar wide? Okay, let's do the 185 182 Yeah, it makes it easy. It takes all of your thinking out of it like you came to the process We came to the process of what we're gonna do after that. It just becomes mechanical. Okay, what are you gonna do on the call side? Let's go to the 197 lean in tiny bit short. Okay, go ahead a little bit more credit. I mean you could go to the the 198 Let's start at the 197 go ahead one and 200 Okay, you got a buck 69 for a basic buck 70 you're a little bit are you higher or lower than a 50 50 probably a success? We're lower. Okay, so does that fit your criteria? No, okay? What do you do? Um, so Wide now the spread so go to like the 196 You're going closer to the money Further away. Well if you're going further further away then your call would have to be higher 198 Yes, 198 and then the 180 Hold on finish the call spread first 198 201 Mm-hmm And then the 184 181 Okay But 51 yeah now you're looking at like a 50 50 You like 50 50 Because you like 50 50 measures. We'll just go to the boat. Yeah, no you don't get 50 50 Yeah, you get a little bit less than it would be your free cocktails All right, so then let's just let's move the puts down Like we save some time yeah, okay, everything you're doing is absolutely perfect I only say save some time because we've got two and a half minutes left to show that I wasn't otherwise You've got to keep doing exactly what you're doing. I'm gonna take a little bit of a different stance $3 wide is exactly what you should be doing. I think it's the best bang for your buck I'm gonna lean a little bit. I'm gonna try to pick up some short deltas only pick up around 10 Yeah, it's not a lot I'm gonna try to get around one third the width of the strikes and I'm gonna try to go to about five dollars wide And you're gonna use around three hundred and fifty dollars worth of buying power. Let's go to the 200 call 205 And Let's go to Let's try to go like to the one seventy four one's 69 It's gonna be a little bit less than Well, we rallied a little bit Dollar 36, okay, let's let's go one striking on the call spread. Let's go 201. I'm sorry. I'm sorry 199 204 And then let's bring in the put spread a little bit closer. Let's go to say 76 I'm just trying to go further on the put side because you already have problems to the downside Yeah, do you know you know, I mean there you are around one third almost one one sixty six would be one third the width of the strikes What do you think? It's a criteria. Let's go in a dollar sixty two Take a firm and send and send Not filled all right, but we got time yeah, okay, let's take a quick break here and go over What I want to talk about we never got to Pandora which I do want to talk to you about and that would be called the box That's closing all four sides of the spreads that you have on you are long a call spread and Long a put spread with the same strikes you're long a call spread that's closer to the money You're long a put spread that's deep in the money four dollars wide I want to teach you or show you at least I know you already know it everybody else without that why that should trade for around Four dollars or less why the count of party needs to make a couple of hours If you to get out of that trade to save you some money on Commissions meaning exercise assignment fees and then also we talked about Staying the course putting things on high implied volatility using the best use of capital We discussed what the best trade is for the best use of capital on a return on capital basis. All right. Good job I do you too looking good today Yes, I'm next You
Video: 063 - Going Over The Greeks 01 20 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm going to be back. I think you're back. Where do I start? Bat versus bat. How are you son? It's okay. A little bit better now than I was set open. What are you down? You're down $900 in change. Let's take a look at your account. So I'm just trying to do some quick math 25 more trading days and then you'll be out. Yeah. The way it's going. You're about $3,000 down, about $3,000. For the year, about 25 days? Yeah. How's your trading career? Oh, people. Right now? Yeah, I had it. It was like the elevator business. It's upside down. Yeah, no, I understand that. Let's think about this for just a quick second. What have you experienced? How would you summarize as short as you can what you've experienced since you started trading? Let's put your account up there if we could. I mean, I think I've experienced high times and low times. I mean, specific to my account, I don't know if these are market highs or market lows. I mean, the highs were market highs, I guess. Right. I can say that. Right. But I mean, I've experienced the swings. I've experienced being up. Did you experience a crash? I think so. I mean, I think the August one kind of counted as a crash. I think this kind of counts as a crash. No? No, I mean, I don't know if there are. For me, it is. For what I've seen from my trading experience, that's. Right. That's why I ask you, like, what do you, like, what have you seen? Like, what do you think you've seen? I mean, these are just, these are small corrects. I mean, what would we do? Yeah. 10% for the year. Mark was unchanged last year. We're down 10% for the year now. James, make sure you're good on the gray box if that's all good. Okay. Can we put his account up there, please? Ah, perfect. There we go. I mean, I'm not sure if it's a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash or a crash. But this is not a crash. I mean, we haven't seen a crash. I don't know if it's going to be. I actually think the bottom's in, but this is for the short term, but this is not a crash. This is a small 10% correction. That's all this is. We're down 10%. Yeah. That seems pretty sizable for the market. All right. So what are we going to do now? You got to, using about $29,000 in buying power, you'll notice that some of your buying power is actually increased a little bit, right, with the new trades that we've put on. You still got around $7 or $8,000 in buying power left. We want to keep the power drive going to what's going to go on with the rest of the market. You got around 30 days to expiration. Let's beta weight your position for a quick second to SPY. You'll notice that you had 700 delta but once you beta weight it, you're long 270 delta in SPY, collecting around $64 in data decay. Yavega is short 344. So under normal circumstances, we would want your delta to be short about 150 to 200 delta's. You're long 270. We'd want you to be short 150 to 200 short delta's. So for the hour thinking, you're pretty long. Yeah. So do you hold the delta here because you've adjusted just about every day. Do you hold your delta's or do you adjust? I mean, I don't know how much adjusting we can do with what we have left. You can always adjust. You can always buy back short puts that we did yesterday and roll them down. There's always, there's never a reason why you can't do anything even when it limited amount of money. You might take away some of your upside, you might take away some of your potential gain, but there's always something to do. There's never an excuse not to do something unless you don't want to. Then you make a conscious effort and you become accountable for it. So what do you do? I don't know. I mean, I guess we want to get a little bit short here. I mean, like, I'm pretty long for what I want in my account. It's time for you to man up, son. Yeah. You're going to have to hold some delta's today. We've got to take a short term shot. I started out by saying, you know what, I think the bottom's in. That doesn't mean that it's in. That's just my assumption. We've been mechanical rolling down all the time. We had a big move down today. We're back above where we opened. And also, we have this little thing. If you watch our show, you know, if there's a big move in the market and it retraces back more than 50%. Like the E-Mini S&P's were down a little over 60 handles at one point. They're down 27 handles now. Well, that's our kind of little tell that, you know, the market is capitulated for at least a short, short period of time. Okay. So I'm going to take those long delta's for the next couple of days. Okay. All right. But that doesn't mean we can't be active. Yeah. So let's be active in the one product that you've actually have the least amount of buying power. You don't have to go back to it, but it's the queues. You're only using around $900 in there. Yeah. So let's go to the queues. And then like a couple call spreads that we sold. We sold some call spreads. Let's open up. You can have to a bunch more strikes because they're half dollar wide. So it's 100 or 70 or 80 or something like that. Good. So it looks like you're short at iron condor, which started with the 99 put 99 96. And let's go up a little bit more. You sold a two lot of call spreads, the one oh seven, one 10. And then your other side of your iron condor. A little bit further. Yeah, it was further out there. Right there. You're short though 114, 117. I mean at your leisure, you can buy that back at two or three cents if you can. Especially with the, I mean if you want to. Yeah. I mean, you can make the argument of buying the 114 calls back for four cents. You would pay no commission because you're short, naked short option that you buy back for under five cents or under. You could charge no commission at TD Ameritrade. So you can make the argument buying that one call back for four dollars is better than buying back the spread. Let's say even if you paid a two dollars for it, you have to pay commissions of three dollars. So you'd be paying five dollars. You'd be saving yourself a buck. A dollar is not a big deal when you're losing seven hundred twenty five dollars today. But every dollar counts, everything counts. Okay. All right. It won't change your buying power at all because that call is so far out of the money that the broker's free. That the broker's from isn't even counting it anymore. Okay. Like it's not part of your risk metrics on your buying power. Okay. Now it could come back into fruition. I don't think so. One half percent probably happening, but I mean anything could happen. Yeah. Okay. All right. So what are we going to look at the cues with the assumption that we're that we want our long delta. You said you want to catch some short delta. I understand that makes perfectly good sense. But at some point we're down 10% already. We've been down, I don't know, it looks like we've been down 23 days out of 20 days. I'm just kidding. We've done every day. Right. So far this year, let's do something that's a little, I'll give you two, I'll give you two examples. Okay. All right. Let's look, well, we're going to have to do an icon door. Yeah. Because we're looking for the best return on capital because you've used all your capital already or the majority of it. Okay. So we've got to use something that's going to give us the most bang for our buck on return a capital. Does it mean it's going to be the highest probability trade? Okay. Let's take a look at doing some of the classic iron condor that we would look at. We'd be something like around the 30 delta option, right? So let's just say, well, it was the 103's a moment ago. Okay, we'll go 104. It's fine. Let's go 104. 107. $3 wide. No, no, no, no. From our research. Now, does it matter that you're short those 107's and you're buying those back on this, on this iron condor? No, because we'll still have the long. Right. It's embedded in there. Your risk profile will change by the new trade that you're putting on. But it's not going to change because those two short calls are being taken away. They're synthetically there. Okay. So we're going to do the 103107. And then let's go down to the put side. It looks like let's go to the 95's. Close enough to 30, right? I mean, you could do the 95's in a half. I'm going to the 95's. One penny wide doesn't know that 93. I'm sorry, 92. And let's see what we got there. So okay, perfect. All right. So you're looking at around $1 is that the trade? Yeah. You're looking at around $1,40. Unclick it for a moment. You were using around $900. You're using $1,200. You had about nine short deltas. You have about 16 short deltas. Your theta goes from 3 to 5. Nothing magical. Yeah. But there, right? We could change that to a two lot if you want. Change it to a two lot. See what happens? You're using $1500 worth of buying power. Instead of 900. Your theta decay goes to 7 and your short delta goes to 23. That would be giving you a little bit of short delta in a classic iron condor. Can I give you something that doesn't give you any short delta? But it doesn't give you any long delta either. Okay. Completely neutral trade. Okay. So, let's get what we call it. I believe we call it a dynamic iron condor. Where we sell both strikes at the 20 delta. And we buy both strikes at the 10 delta regardless of how wide that makes our spread. So, let's take a look at it. So, the 20 delta would be the 92 put. And the 10 delta, let's just call it the 86. So, you're looking at around $6 wide if I'm thinking correctly. The 20 delta would be right there fine, the 106. And the 10 delta is going to be, looks like... Let's make it the 109 just to stay consistent with the half dollar wide strikes. Okay. Unclick the 2 lot and open up the slices if we could. Okay. Unclick it for a moment. You're short around 9 delta. Actually, it's giving you a little bit of short delta because obviously things are moving around. Even the S and P's are moving $2, $3 at a clip. Russell just actually went positive on the day. Big move in the Russell already. Even the S and P's down 25. Okay. Click on it. That helps for my IWM positions. Yes, it will. Yes, it will. You're collecting $1.40 versus $1.11. We can do this two times also if you want to. Okay. How do you collect more theta on this trade when the other trade gives you more credit? That's a great question. Because there's less directional risk here. Now, it has to do with your existing position. It has to do with your existing position. So since you're selling that call closer to the... Your overall position probably has that already in it. If you unclick everything for a moment, you click it and then click it. Okay. Now just do the one iron condor. Anyone does not matter. Okay. Step right there. $5.57 worth of theta decay. Four delta's. Unclick that one. $4.00 and theta decay. 12 delta. So one has $4.00 and theta decay. Unclick that one. Click that one back. And then that's five delta. I take it back what I said. I was wrong. So all it's showing you here is the rated decay is going to be faster on the further out of the money. But eventually will be less because you're collecting more credit on the front month one. I just thought you were inverted on one of your positions. That originally. Does that make sense? You're going to make $140 two times if all those legs are out of the money. So you're going to make $280 bucks. That's a given. You're only going to make $220 on the other one. The theta decay is going to be a little bit accelerated right now on the. Oh, because of the smaller credit. That's correct. That's correct. It'll probably take around the same time frame though. It always takes around the same time frame. Which one do you want to do? I don't mind going more conservative with the one ten. Okay. Sounds good to me. There's no wrong answer. With the dynamic. Two times. Okay. Sounds good to me. Go ahead and go ahead and go ahead and use the $390. Perfect. Alright. You good? Yeah. See if we got filled. Do we got filled? Uh, go ahead and one ten and we'll leave it there and if we don't get filled with the shows on, you'll move it and get filled yourself. Alright. Cool. So what do we do here a little bit today? Um, we really can go over your positions. But we made the conscious effort to stay with those long deltas. You're right out the apex of how much long delta you. You can have. We haven't had much more than 350 deltas before. I don't wanna go over that, but we're gonna take a little shot with direction. Then we put on using a little bit of buying power, a couple hundred bucks, about $400 in buying power. Again, just looking at some more premium, staying with the mechanics. Got a lot of work cut out for you this month. Got a lot of work this year, really. Got a late rally day, hopefully. Yes, well, so far you came a little bit. It's all right now. Good. All right, who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. What do I normally say? Peace. Good for you.
Video: 064 - Gld Iron Condor 01 26 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Thank you back when I start. Bat vs Bat. How are you son? Good day for me. Yeah, good day for you. Yeah, I got everything moving in my direction right now. Don't? Right now. Don't have it. I want to say a few words. Just up 24 before it came on. They're up 1975 right now. So hold your horses. Let's take a quick look at your account. We've got the Dow up 230 trading near the highs of the day. I don't get the kind of respect that Sadduck gets on his show. Right? He puts up the day goes right away. There we go. You're up 483 bucks for the day. Still down around 1112 hundred bucks for the year. Fighting our way back. Let's bet away your position. Probably all those adjustments or any trades that we did yesterday. We're probably hurting you for about 40 bucks or so for the trades that we did. SPY you're long 78 shares. I mean, I think we've been in in quite some time. So you hit hands in pocket. Yeah, right? Yeah. So if your macro view of your overall position is kind of what you want and your money is doing well for you, what do you do now? I mean, we have on these positions, we're going to sit and wait, but you'll find a trade right? You continue to put on trades. Yeah. Find new trades. Okay. 12 minutes or so. Let's take a look at GLD. Now, let me give you some background on it. We didn't talk about this ahead of time. Like we do for most of the show, go to a chart of GLD if we could. The six month correlation in GLD is about a negative one three and the three months is about a negative point two five, which means it basically has no correlation to the market over the last six months. But it's become less correlated over the. It's become a little bit of an inverse over the shorter period of time. You can see the market's going higher today, but this started the year lower. It's actually higher. So this has gone higher, the market's gone lower. But I don't know. So what I'm trying to say is the world is your oyster. I mean, you know, if you're looking for something that's not correlated to a position, not add on, it's kind of independent in its own. Well, there's a decent candidate. 51% IV rank. Highest it's been in some time. I know you got a couple of spikes there that are above 50, but I mean, highest it's been in some time. Okay. What do you want to do? You know everything I know. We have to sell some premium, but we've only were limited with the buying power. Well, you've got about eight or nine thousand dollars in buying. Yeah, we've got. So even a strangle would take about $1,600. Now you know everything I know. Okay. Well, let's look at the order chains. Okay. Let's go to the trade page GLD. What are you going to do? Feb or March? At this point, probably go to March. I mean, it's fizzing at. There's no wrong answer. 45 days is our sweet spot. 52 versus 24. You're kind of in the middle. You could make the argument. 52 is closer to 45 than 24. Cool. Go ahead. I love it. All right. What's your opinion on gold? Well, it's been, I mean, when we were looking at it, it was up. Is that a nice rally? What's it been up on the, is it like a 10% move? 5% for sure. You can take a little bit of the. Well, we were trying to do like kind of a neutral trade in GDX last week when gold was a little bit lower. So we could go skewed on like a skewed iron condor that's kind of to the downside, but neutral. Okay. Go ahead. Pick your strikes. Let me hear. You've been doing this long enough. What about like a dynamic iron condor? Okay. So that would give you basically no. No delta. A dynamic. No, that's fine. It's fine, but let's just tell everybody what it is. A dynamic iron condor is you're selling the call at the 20% probability being out of the money and the put at the 20% and then you're buying the 10% and buying the 10%. So if you put that on, all things being equal at the moment you put it on, if they were both short, short, a 20 and long, long, a 10, you'd have zero delta. Basically when we do an iron condor, it has a little bit of short delta to it just by the nature of the product, meaning the volatility skew. Okay. Let's see what that comes up with. So what's your strike on the call side? Well, I want to get, let's get some short delta on it. So let's go ahead. It's not, okay. Well, you do it. You got it. Okay. You went, you went some different directions in your own head. Yeah. So so far you said, okay, I don't have the buying power to do a strangle that I told you. It takes 1,600 bucks and you got about 9,000. So you can. Okay. Yeah. Then you said, okay, let's look at an iron condor. So okay with that. Then you said, let's look at a dynamic iron condor. I mean, how many personalities do you have in there? All over the place. Okay. Then you said, let me get some short delta. All right. Well, let's get closer on the calls than we do on the puts to pick up a little bit of short delta for an iron condor. Okay. God, you tell me. All right. So I mean, there's really no wrong answer. You'll see how much credit you receive and then you'll come up with the parameters that you need. You've heard it enough times. All right. Let's start. We'll go at the 1,11, the 30 delta. Okay. To sell the short. What are you going to define your risk with? What are you going to, if you're doing an iron condor? We'll go $3 to the to 1,14. Perfect. Go ahead. And you're doing that why? Why $3? That's just kind of like the optimal. That's what we found from our research. $3 is why it gives you the best bang for your buck. Optimus, where did you use? You went to college. I didn't. Go ahead. And the put side. You'll be holding down the control key to do this at home if you were playing along. Okay. So we'll look to get about 50 cents on this. So we'd go to like the 1,04 and the 1,01. Okay. And that would give us a rounded dollar and credit. Okay. Okay. Now hold on a second. Did you notice what? This is neutral. That's correct. We're at the 30s on each one. Okay. So why don't we move down the puts a dollar each? Okay. And by moving down, you mean further away? Further away from the money. So 1,03, 1,01. Or 1,100. Very good. Do you remember what you got for the call spread? Yeah. 58 cents. Okay. So what I'm trying to show you is, so if you got 58 cents for the call spread, you're getting more for the put spread going further away. Right? I mean, you know, a moment ago. Okay. I'm just glad. Is that good? I mean, this is... What's the probability of the put being in the money at 1,03? Let's take a look at it. I like 25. Perfect. Around 25. So it's very small slight difference, right? Yeah. Okay. I like it. Can we leave that trade up there for a moment? Put it back up and change single order to blast all. Okay. So let's take a look at what the difference would be. If you were to look at a strangle, because you had a lot of money in your account, not the eight or $9,000. Maybe that's why you're a little apprehensive. Okay. So let's go around the same strikes. Let's go to the one... Let's go... Since you know, it makes a little bit different when you're... When you have undefined risk or limited profitability, you can be a little bit further and collect more credit. Let's look at the 112 calls and the 101 puts. All right. So now you're collecting around $1.72 using $1,600 bucks. You're collecting $1,11 using only $290. That's going to be $190.199. So significant difference. You're able to go a little further away, right? My break evens on the strangle. I mean, I'm just trying to show the difference between like, you know, using more money, how you have a higher probability of success than, you know, using a defined risk strategy and having a lower probability of success. Okay. It works. Now let's... I told you to use $1,600 bucks. You'll have to take my word for it on the strangle. Yeah. So on the call side, close that up for a minute. If we could go further out, like, what's 16 strikes? What do we say? The 112s? So if we went... Because I'm going $16 out. Okay. Right? You could actually go $18 out because you're collecting $2. But let's just see $16 out. You'd be able to buy the call for around $0.10, let's say, right? Yeah. So that doesn't save you anything, right? I would just... I'm just going through the motions. Because a lot of times you'll be able to, you know, make a trade like a strangle in an IRA account or something else like that. Because you can go far enough out and buy that wing for a little... You know, not that much money. So let's cut it in half and say that we're going to go $8. We'll go to the 120s. All right. That's $0.30. All right. Let's go... Let's just take a look at the puts. Yeah. You have to click it or anything. So that's $0.30. It seems okay, but it's a little expensive, right? We like to stay under that $0.20, $0.10, preferably. Yeah. Let's go down to the put side. We had the 101. And if you go about eight or nine strikes down... Well, you'd be looking... There you go, around the 92.93. So what does that tell you about SKU? Where's the SKU in GLD? In the puts. The puts are trading cheaper than the calls. So the SKU is in the calls? So the calls... There's more premium in the calls. So the SKU is in the calls. Okay. You had a 50-50 shop. Yeah. I mean, it wasn't bad. It wasn't bad, right? Yeah. Okay, so if I was looking to make this trade and I wanted to limit the amount of capital I was using, I might look to buy the put, 93 put, the spread and then have my eye if I get a move down to buy that call so I could save myself some capital. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? As opposed to going now with the 30 or 40 cent. That's correct. That's correct. Okay. Okay, let's do your iron condo that you want to do. All right. So work for you? Yeah. Okay. Let's delete that bottom trade. It was just what it was. It was like 11 before. Okay. Let's change the sell to a buy. It's just a quick way. Okay. So the mid price is the same. All I'm doing is I'm looking at if I want to buy this spread, the mid price is 110. If I want to sell this spread, which is what we would want to do. It's 19 110. 110 would be a fair price. I actually think you're going to have to go down to probably 108 or so to get this filled. Let's go in at 110 and you can change it when the show is over and you get back to your... cubicle without a window. Yeah, back to the mail room without a window. It's locked me up. It's just a spinning bike. That's how the lights work in here. Correct. Excellent. Okay. Since you did March, if we get some movement in GLD, let's put on another one. Because we only did one contract. You've been doing a lot more two, three contracts and a lot of stuff. So maybe with some movement, we'll look to put on another one. Because you got time March 52 days. Okay. Cool. So we took a break here just to go over what we talked about and really it was finding a new trade. When you looked at your overall positions and you liked everything you had there, the one thing you have to look at, look at X. X, you're up $54 for the year. You have $118 today. You've had that trade on since September. September, we had one. September, we had one. We closed it in like no... The day before we opened this current position that we've been rolling. And you've been down a couple hundred bucks on it at one point and now you're up $54 and it has earnings today. In some pain, in some gratification. You got to give it a 50 cent expected move in the stock. Okay. That's your risk. You decide whether you want to keep it. All right. All right. Might be time to scratch that one out. Well, you got a profit. Nice scratch. All right. Who comes up next? Tim Knight, next. Peace.
Video: 065 - Anatomy Of Rolling Inverted 01 28 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start bad versus bad how you son good day for me good day good day for you Yeah, is your world now just about you. Yes. Yes. Yes. Definitely spoke with like a true trader Let's take a look at your account real quick get even the S&P's up $13 up around 260 bucks You're up for a 500 at one point early this morning when e-money S&Ps were about 10 handles higher than then they are right now your let's pay to weight your overall position Think you're long about 70 delta's is this okay 70 delta's you know you Vegas relatively low For the amount of time that we have 20 some of our days till expiration, but you should have about what do we say in short delta if you have about 350 in negative Vega So at least like 170 Yeah, but somewhere between a hundred and 200 I mean, you know something like that So you're still leaning a little bit long. Yeah, you've sold some call spreads, but more importantly You rolled some xo p can you open up the xo p just at the bottom not the bives fine enough to sharp I will go over in a second you rolled your xo p from February to March and if you noticed you rolled down You are put from 34 to 33. Mm-hmm I have the research team did a great job. I'm gonna give them a shout out. I got 11 slides for you All about your whole xo p trade that I'd like to kind of review we do an anatomy of a trade on the on the show the time And I do we haven't done one a while. This is really kind of a nice review But it really discusses being inverted And what we should be looking for now we've got about 13 minutes 12 minutes How about we go through is that work for you minute aside? Let's do it. Let's do it. You're right. You're right Okay, xo p inverted strangle All right, so we started with a strangle typical strangle we can go to the next slide We started with the know 45 35 the important thing here is to recognize that this is back in October 9th of last year so go for the very beginning here. It's a long time What was your assumption on xo p even though I know you don't remember what it was? Neutral it's exactly in the middle right. It's neutral a dollar 18 looking to look at to loot use a little bit Get around a dollar credit. So our entry is good. I don't remember what the implied volatility rank was but I'm sure it was high Let's go to the next slide I remember right before we sold like just a naked put in xo p enclosed at that same day unlike the on October Second or third or four. How far you have come like do you remember how we started like because I was like one of my first winners Or at least like it was a quick one. It was one of the box like three or four. I think it was a rogue trade Two and I kind of stuck it to you on that one good. Well, you've been paying the price ever Yeah, yeah, there you go I'm very shortly thereafter from the 9 to the 22nd we're rolling down the call and we haven't got paid yet XOP was around 39 dollars when we made this trade almost 40 dollars 39 it's down to 37 We're rolling down the untested side classic collecting 40 cents. We're up about $10 on the overall trade No sense in taking it off. Mm-hmm. Go to the next slide Okay, um, we went from the 22nd to now the 28th XOP is down around 36 dollars in change moved down another dollar We're taking that no Call that we had started out as a 45 became the 41 now it's going down to the 38, but you're still up 25 dollars We're being mechanical you still 25 bucks. Let's go to the next slide All right, we're into the following month now We're gonna move November to December and we changed all the strikes again We were able to widen the strikes on the call side and we actually moved up the puddle a bit because look what XOP did It went from 36 dollars and 28 cents back to 38 dollars So what was our mechanical move down in the previous slide the right thing to do? Yeah, the time it was well it made you comfortable. Yeah, so so the process was correct untested side But you didn't get paid on it because the stock rally back had you done nothing You would have made money maybe even had a chance to take this off But you're still up $41 at this point Now you started out with your original strangle at a buck 19 we're not at 50 percent But we've been struggling like we're struggling right yeah, I mean you could adjust to find taking it off here You could I might be the point that I want to make but you know listen You've got to take everything into the situation that you were in yeah, you just started trading You're trying to work a winner you want to stay mechanical with the 50 percent trying to not rules But guidelines to follow maybe there's not other trades that you can find in the market that have high-employed Ultimately, yeah, maybe you want to lean a little bit long. It got it works. All right next slide All right, so we fast forward almost a month from 11 to 12 to That's the D spread we're gonna we're looking to take it now into January we didn't have to do anything for the full month yet a current P&L of $117 Yeah, I mean we could have taken it off but I Mean doing this role is the same as opening a new position in the in the Sun relying so I mean If the implied volatility was high, which I assume it was at this time I Don't think and what is it think about it back in December overall markets rallying Yeah, this is one of the winning trades you had you were kind of basically struggling maybe small positive Maybe a small loser back in December at that time oil was like at its at its low Make going to make new lows because in hindsight you know what's gonna happen. Yeah, if we made one mistake looking back Of course always looking back we probably should have closed this trade a little bit if we were going to that 50% rule We should have closed this trade now that doesn't mean you might not have wanted to have the same type of position in January Anyway, but you've got a 117 now all I want to show you here is that the process works Meaning if you continually roll and give yourself time to be right even in something like XOP that was moving around Greatly well outside of its expected range well outside of its implied volatility There was a chance to manage a winner now all our research goes goes by as well if you had managed this winner at 50% You know you would be a profit, you know blah blah blah and then somebody does this trade like you like us like we did in the show and you don't overall have a profit in XOP But the research would show you that you could have But whatever reason you didn't yeah, okay, let's go to the let's go to the next slide On the seventh we're gonna roll down the calls again from 39 to 34 because look what the stock did it was almost 36 dollars now it's trading wrapped around 32 dollars in a very short period of time you're talking about five days So that window of managing a winner was very very small. Yeah, I mean really small You went from a hundred and $120 a hundred fifteen dollar profit to a forty eight dollar loss very similar to what you did in X. Yeah That's that's her another episode again. You're continually rolling down your full credit now is five dollars and thirty eight cents Remember this started out as a credit of a dollar fifteen. Let's go to the next slide On 1221 about two weeks late a little bit less you're rolling down again Look at what the stock is doing over from $32 to $28 on the second the stock was 30 almost 36 It's 28 you're down $232 you've only collected a credit of four dollars and 14 cents because you kind of go a little inverted down. Yeah, okay, let's keep moving because you got a little bit of a debit But you want to keep the dream alive right yeah, okay? On the eighth from the 21st to the to January 8th now Again, we're looking to roll down those calls stock trading around $27.60. It's down another dollar This is that whole implosion of oil listen I just want to show you how you have something that's moved from The high 30s flirting with 40 to flirting with 25 at some point But you're staying mechanical you're losing a lot less you had a chance to manage winner all the things that we talk about Even in something like and this is not a normal move for its implied volatility that we originally started with because in volatility keeps going higher and higher on the whole trade Okay, so you're rolling down again You've got total credit of $4 and 92 cents. This is back on the eighth which is just not too long ago next one You're taking it today from February to March your current P&L is is down $239 your overall credit received on the full trade is 492 now This brings us to what I just spoke about a moment ago. We were able to take your Feb 34 put to the March 33 put we kept your 30 call the same We certainly could have moved it closer to the 29 strike and tried to collect a little more credit We're taking the Delta risk as imposed to taking a little extra credit The next slide sums up really good and the research team did a great job these are not weren't my words They're their words. I'd like to read it to you if I could cool with XO P27 the current price is The current position is an inverted 30 33 strangle meaning our call Is closer than our put our put is deeper in the money than the call is out of the money in March currently down to our 39 dollars That's what you just saw on the other slide For most what I say the most the most is position can now make is $192 Okay, do you do you understand do you understand why because you have a $3 the put in the call It's a $3 difference you've got So if it lands in the middle of there that's gonna be worth $3 and we have $492 in total credit So 192 is the best case scenario if it's between 30 and 33 perfect And that's what says there the break even's an now 34 92 and 28 08 XOP currently is trading at 2715 that's what I was talking about you need a little bit of that delta risk you need that dollar more in XOP to break even Yeah, okay if you had only rolled the initial position position from November each month We would have had the 45 35 strangle would have the same strangle for a net credit of $2.79 As opposed to a net credit of almost $492 that we do have So if we kept this position the same this is why you know, I always talk about how yes You can roll the same strikes all the time But I always want to roll for a little bit of credit. I want to keep everything account I want to increase in increase my basis. I want to collect premium on every role and here's a great example Where you're collecting almost twice as much Credit because we roll down giving us each put a break even of $32.21 21 cents the position would also have a net current loss of over $500 and Fighting the losing put of a 35 put as opposed to a net loss of 230 bucks basically half It's awesome. It really is awesome, but to loser. Yeah, but you had a chance at two times Your initial target of $50 because you're up a hundred and 17 pounds one point to close this trade Yeah, it's really it's really cool to see how I mean just staying mechanical with it can can even limit those losses and even if you own that stock You'd be even worse off right now and so just Roy the idea of rolling Saved saved us half of what we are we're looking at I make that same argument all the time that you know I didn't lose as much as I would have if I had just bought the stock or if I had just done a covered call and then done nothing It's a valid point. I hate losing money. Yeah in any flow Of course and I hate losing money and something that I had a profit and then I had thought to get even on So the biggest takeaway for me I think that for everybody else else out there is the rolling down on the mechanics and now you need a one dollar move in the stock Instead of almost a four dollar move in the stock to get back to even a four dollar move in the stock would actually get you to a full Profit at expiration. I think the most important thing here is You have to manage your winners and not get filled into that pigeonhole of I'm not gonna find other Volatility someplace else because you never know what's gonna happen in the market because look what happened 30 days later in the market I mean there were so many other opportunities which we probably missed in oil because we were defending the bone on this position So maybe it's defending the position until you get to a positive or back to a break even and then take it off and going someplace else All right, let's take a quick break here and just go over everything we did We talked a lot and then we talked about it extensively this XOP inverted strangle how we got there What the mechanics were all the trades that we did with the prices? I think it was a really good exercise that teach people on you know Now you have a three dollar wide Inverted strangle but yet you've collected almost five dollars in credit You need a one dollar move in the stock even though your call is almost three dollars out of the money to break even Pretty powerful stuff comes up next got Tim night next right now. I'm gonna say peace
Video: 066 - Delta Equivalency 02 02 2016.mp3
Transcript:  We're back. Nikki, we're back. Where do I start back for us? It's a bad, how are you today? Good. I still have talking to you. I like to do it. Yeah. Let's take a look at your account. We do have a lot to do. I really do. Down $121 today, you to date down 467. Just a low point. You're account for today. You're up around $150 bucks. The E-mini S-P's down 20. They're down 37 right now. Yeah. You're in your position for a quick second. Do you remember your Greeks? I know you know Adelta and Gamma and I know Theta. Do you remember what Vega is? Yeah, the Vega is how the effect of volatility change on my portfolio. Fantastic. Volatility is up. Let's call it one and a half points today. If you came in short, since that's not beta-weighted Vega, let's just say you were short 400. I'm just looking at all the Vega. S-P-Y's 130, IWM at 70, Dow is 100. It's a dollar change. It's based on a dollar change in volatility. So let's say you were short 400 Vega coming in. So I would think that if volatility moved by one point, I would lose $400. But you're down how much? 130-ish. Okay, so it moved between a half. So you should be down somewhere between $5, $6,000. Depending on what Vega was yesterday, but you're down $130. So that's probably offset by Theta. Which is not a lot because volatility is expanding and everything I get paid. Offset by your Delta. You were short around $2.5, $253,000 shares of S-P-Y. Okay. So is there like a ratio relationship that we looked at? Not typically, but we're always short Vega. That's why we want to be short Delta, short Vega. Okay. So the really ratio is about volatility. So the idea being that if volatility increases, the short Delta is going to kind of hedge against. Correct. And what happens when market goes higher, volatility contracts. So you don't get hurt as much on your short Delta. Everything is almost a hedge if you just kind of look and follow the program. All right, now you bet what you position you went from short. Let's just call it 250 Delta's to long about 150 Delta's. Quick swing. What's the process that we want to do? We want to start taking these from February to March. All right. So I've got some things for you to look at. Cool. Let's just go into S-P-Y. Excuse me. Let's go into the diamonds real quick. Did I tell you S-P-Y before? If I told you S-P-Y I'd lie then I'm sorry. Let's go into the diamonds. We'll get to S-P-Y in a minute. Let's open up the February options. Let's go down a little bit further. We're going to open up a bunch of strikes. It's going to 167 at this time. I have to open up that many. Okay, so I want to show you something here for a moment. Okay. Look at the short five. Remember the units we were talking about? I want to stay with the same thing. I'm always looking to reduce units. You see those five short 187 calls? How much are they down today? Eight five cents. That change is the 85 cents. Okay. Five times 85. Give it to me? Five hundred four. This is called four fifty. This is called four fifty. Yeah. Okay. How much is the 167 put? You're short. How much is it losing today? Say 300? Yeah, it's up to 90. Okay. So you're losing 300 on one contract, making 400 in change on the other five. That's a Delta equivalent trade. Meaning those now change are from net change to Delta. Get to the Delta equivalent for a moment. What I'm trying to say here is those five calls times it by 16. You're looking at around 80 Delta's? Mm-hmm. Look at how much Delta's in that one put. That's the same. Okay. Your position breaks down right now in the diamonds. Not fully, but on a high level. If you buy one of those puts and buy five of those calls, it's Delta neutral. It's Delta equivalent. You're not picking up any long Delta, you're not picking up any short Delta's. What do you do? What's going to happen if the diamonds go lower? Those 167 calls going to move? No. Tomorrow the diamonds go down to another 300 points. So the doubt goes down 300 points. The doubt goes down 200 points. No. They're not going to move at all. They might even go higher. Because Valet tell you might expand. Well, they may not move. But that puts going to move. That puts going to keep going. Almost one to one. Yeah. Because at this point it's close to stock. I mean, it'll go one to one until it gets stock is what I would think. So do you think it's prudent to buy five of those calls back, get rid of all of those units and buy one of those puts? Which one is more prudent? No, do you think it's prudent to buy them both? If you're looking at 17 days to expiration. I mean, yeah, it's something we're going to have to deal with before expiration. Okay, so why wouldn't you do it today? I'm just going to... Because the move today, I mean, it hasn't... Okay, so if you were bullish on the market, that one position is going to work exactly the opposite way. If we rally tomorrow, Valet tell you he's going to contract, those puts are going to move almost one to one with the diamonds. And those calls probably aren't going to move it at all. Yeah. So it's going to help us. It would help you. So what do you do? That's the million dollar question. Exactly. Now tomorrow, you can answer that question... Yeah, with hindsight. Just like everybody else can. Uh-huh. What are you going to do today in real life? I mean, I would think the mechanical thing to do would be to roll. Take those units off and look to roll the trade. High implied volatility. Have a higher probability of success in March. Okay. All right. Before you do that, go to the monitor tip for just a quick second. Because you asked me earlier this morning, the trades that we took off yesterday, just put a triangle or a rectangle, a rectangle around the unit date. Diamonds. You're up, let's just call it $130. Uh-uh. IWM. You're up, let's just call it $350. Uh-uh. Q's. You're up $200. Uh-uh. SPY. You're down $150. It's called $150. You have another ETFs that mirror the market, right? Net net. You're up around $600 in your ETF equity position. Those trades you took off yesterday, you took them off for a profit or a loss? Uh-uh. Well, today it would have been better to take them off today than it was yet. Well, no, because those puts were so deep in the money. So probably did help us. Yes, today when you took them off, was it a profit or a loss? Because you're accountually moved by $150. I mean, net net, it was unchanged. You know, net net, it was a huge winner. All the money that you're losing is basically coming down to Twitter. You're down $580 in Twitter. Your overall account is only down $500. Yeah, that's true. You were down $4,000. Were you ever down $4,000 in Twitter in your account? No. No. Your account was down $4,000 from everything else. Did you battle back? Yeah. Did you battle back amazingly? Yes. Okay, so now from now on, when you think what you're doing, you're doing it properly. Are you getting paid yet? Not yet, but we're close. That's correct. And all you have to do is stay in the game. The only way you can stay in the game, reducing your units, mechanically roll, and eventually you get paid. It's a long trip to January. Yeah. Okay. I'm with you. Okay. Let's go to the analyze page. And we can show everybody the same thing that we're doing. By the way, you really have the worst timing. I know, seriously. But if we shadow trader, this is the time when we have a reversal, something, something. Yeah. So it's the reason why your account's at the lowest. Between two and three. Between two and three. All right, so let's look to buy back in the diamonds. Let's look to buy back five of those calls, the 167 calls. Perfect. And by one of the 167 puts. 905, whatever it's trading for, let's, well, here, let me do a favor. Is that the right buying power? Yes, 6,000. Okay, click on it for a moment. Okay, so you go down from 6,000 to 4,000. Go down just a little bit further. I'm going to show you what the next trade is going to be. Okay, then I want you to sell one of the 150 puts. You're long, then. So what we're doing here is we bought that 1167 put. Let's sell that 150 put. You're long. We're just trying to reduce our overipses. Yeah. Click on it for a minute. That's going to increase your buying power by about $400. Now, you have, remember when we came in, you had more, let's take a look. We have puts that are further out the 146s. So, but look at your, look at your delta, though. Your delta goes from, from basically flat or a little bit long. You're long, about 36 delta to about 47 delta. So what I want to do is sell one of those 164 calls. Click on it for a moment. That gets you almost flat. Maybe we'll move those 164 calls. Now, the E-Mini S-F-P's are down 40. Maybe we'll move them down one strike. Okay. Let's go, you can do it now at 163. Okay. And look at your buying power, 4400. So by selling that call all in premium, reduces some of your delta. It doesn't increase any of your buying power. You take your buying power from almost 6100 to 4400. Then that's going to free up money for us to do something on the cues. Cool. Okay. Yeah, we're liking the U-R-A. Yeah, we're liking the U-R-A. That's probably going to be trading more than 905. There you go. Let's just leave it 908 and then we can change it. Diamonds are really hard to get filled. Like you, I mean, by heart, I mean, sometimes you've got to give up a little bit. So let's go in and add 908 and then we'll try to move it. Okay, filled. Not yet. I'll go up to 10 or 11. You're talking about two or three dollars. I got to get filled. Oh my god. It's 912 already. All right. You can just leave it and let it work. In the cues, I want to take that money. Let's go into the cues. You can stay right here if you want to or you can go to the trade page. I want to take that money in the cues. You have a very small position in the cues. Right? You basically have just an iron condo on the cues. Yeah. So let's sell the 109, 109, 93 straddle. Oh, shoot me. Strangle. Unclick it for a moment. You have about $300 worth of buying power. Click it again. You're going to go about to $1,700. That's that $1,400, $1,500 that we just took out of the diamonds. Yeah. To put on a more neutral trade. All I'm doing is rinsing and repeating. Rinsing and repeat. Then I want you to do the same thing in SPY. I want you to find a put spread. That's your short, a wide put spread. I want you to buy that wide put spread. That's going to reduce some of your delta. And then I want you to look for an iron condo. That's maybe like 10 strikes out in SPY. That you're collecting one third of the width of the strikes. So you go from using $1,000 on a put spread that you have that you've been working to something that's going to have a higher probability of success, a 70% probability of success. Instead of something that's a 50-50 shot in high implied volatility. Okay. Does it make sense? Yeah. Wow, today really flew. Yeah, it did. Let's go take a look at your account one more time because I think it's down near the bottom of the bottom. Yeah, it's down 42 on the day. Even the SP's down 42 trading 1880, 1889. When we got in here, they were down like 32, I think. That's correct. Yeah. And you're looking to, you know, get your delta. Yeah. Not easy. No. Okay. You okay? Yeah. Okay. Just remember something. You're positive on all your ETFs. You're a core position of oil and that Twitter position. Twitter position is one contract. Sometimes you don't have a small big, really, how big small really is. Hopefully that earnings will be good for us. So you bring up an excellent point. So earnings are what? On the 10th or something like that? Yeah. And we've gotten a lot of questions about this. Okay. So we got 30 seconds or less. So what are you thinking with earnings coming out of the 10th? Well, I actually close out of the call today that I had. It was for Nickel. For Nickel. And my thinking there was just to not limit the upside and just at least play. I mean, there needs to be an only way. You know, you can be bailed out. Yeah. If it goes down another $4 a year. Yeah. So be it. Exactly. But maybe it can go up $8. Or maybe it can just be unchanged. Yeah. All right. Let's say a quick break here and go over what we talked about. What are we looking at here? We looked at delta equivalency. Five crappy calls trading for around 40 cents of the equivalent to that one in the money put. And you're actually up money on that part of the position. In the diamonds, you are up around $50. It's all from that one position. Take it off and then use that money in a better way. Higher probability success. Awesome. You okay? Yeah. All right. Good job, buddy. You too. Peace. Who comes up next? You got Tim and I next. Peace.
Video: 067 - Rolling Inverted Strangles Into Straddles 02 04 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start that versus bat how are you son good good day? We've been busy we've been active On the support team you mean and in our count a little bit of both. Yeah a little bit of both good good Well, that's good you know business is more important than anything else of course always Hey, that's what we tell Tom when he's listening Yeah, otherwise it's really straight. Come on right otherwise. It's really all about your account Yeah, let's take a look at your account real quick All right, you're up around 200 bucks nice day You're down about a hundred hundred fifty bucks at one point maybe a little bit more Down 250 bucks for the year of battling back in everything just like we always get a little help from oil Although oil is down 60 cents right now you're getting a little more help from oil before hey Let's pay to weight your overall position. I just want to show you something from it to SPY Now you notice there's six fill trades and I know you you push everything out on dough and and you're very diligent about it So those are following along at home can follow each trade individually. I don't want to go over them too much But let me just show you what we have here. So Little small delta may affect if we go down five seven points from here You'll be flat if we go up five seven points maybe be short around a hundred delta Okay, but let's look at where your delta's are coming from diamonds IWM SPY are all negative deltas and then your positive deltas are coming from things like oh I oh I H Small and accused because the cues are actually down a lot more than say the diamonds or or Or the Russell over the last couple of days And then you have you know your Twitter your us. Oh Exitly a lot of you know retail a lot of oil related stocks So you're kind of a little bit short the market equity and a little bit long Oil now those are kind of Little offsetting which is good right? I mean because Mark is following oil a little bit of oil has been following the market however you want to look at it They've been going heavy a little bit of a of a correlation there, okay? So I think I got a pretty flat Account yeah at this moment. I would agree now all the trades you did got you to that moment You can open up the field orders for just a quick second. I don't want to dwell on this But early this morning when we were lower you bought a diamond call spread You got your units even we've been trying remember we've been talking about how you've been Short a lot extra call units should have done a couple of days ago if we do a couple of days ago much better than doing it today But again, you know you're working you're working through you don't always get it right USO you rolled I'm starting from the bottom USO you rolled from February to March because USO was up You talked about having a super bowl in there. Yeah, that was that was a super bowl And we just we're leaving the call spread on the long call spread because we've already paid for it in there in fab in fab That's correct. So you long a worthless fab call spread for two weeks. I never know what can happen Yeah, and now you've rolled your put your bullish assumption from February to March perfect XLU is a trade that you did mm-hmm rogue again. Yeah. Yeah, I got it from the cherry bomb Couple people on Twitter were tweeting about it too, so join the fun. Okay The only XLU I know has a medium to high implied bought the right you're not collecting that one third the width of the strikes Which I which I you know it's You're right. Yeah, we're right there. I mean very good. But you're right at the money too. I mean the stats 46 and change. Okay, great again It works a number of currencies. We're getting them I WM buying back your units buying two calls buying back one put Basically delta neutral on on that overall trade but taking in the units SPY again buying in your call spread that you were short same thing with the diamonds buying in your call spread just short now Your quandary is taking everything from February since you both basically have wide iron condors on now Since you've gotten rid of all your units that you protected on the way down this big 10% move Which is which your account was done almost 4,000 days at one point now you've taking those off They work they did their job and now you've got to take those February positions and move them to March Okay, all right cool You brought up a great I want to talk about doing something in iwm I wanted to go to the analyzed tab and look at spy Cues and diamonds and find out where you were getting your delta's from We'll save that for tomorrow. It's not imperative Um, and then I want to talk about caterpillar. I want to get short caterpillar So you brought up something in ewz, which I think is actually better. Yeah, then what I was coming up So this has been one that I think we've had it on Since November it's another one of those trades like xop where we've kind of rolled it from strength and now it kind of went against us And now we're Inverted on this on this trade, but They're you know, what is inverted mean? So our call is Below our put strike and the the stock is it right in between us now, but you have it You're a short in the money call and a short in the money put. Yeah inverted You see the stocks 20 dollars calls 19 dollars. It's in the money puts 23 dollars. It's in the money. Good So at expiration, this is where we would want it to be. I mean we'd want it to be to be between our strikes That's and that spread would be worth how much? Four dollars because it's the width of those those strikes So it only looks like there's about another 40 dollars left to make in that in that spread so you're P&L since the beginning of the year it's the first time you've had a trade there You've basically locked in a 40 dollar loss with this with rolling down. Yeah, you probably had a hundred or two hundred Loss, but you put you okay, so where do you go now? And so Since we've had this move like into our inverted strikes had a little bit of strength Yeah, we've had a little bit of strength not too much left to make 40 cents. Yeah, and it's not a position that holds a ton of buying power I was thinking that we could roll it into March and You know since we've rolled this so many times we've we've collected Around three dollars and 80 cents worth of credit this whole okay You know this whole time so figured we'd roll it into March and kind of try and Massage the position take a look at how we would roll that or how you would roll it. I'm gonna let you Do the talking here and see if see if you can work this out Okay, roll it to February how do you do it? So we roll it to March I apologize change it to positions first. Thank you Okay, what do you do? So we would buy back the the 19 call Okay, and the 23 put okay Now the first thing you should notice when you look at that 23 put is about 13 cents wide So whenever this spread comes out to be you should go in below the mid price and then walk it up Okay, okay, cuz the call because it's gonna be a debit as well. So you'd want it start below however Whatever it is just just start lower and work your way higher. Good. Okay um And so it's trading 40 cents above the the parity price. That's where you get that 44 cents. That's correct You're 100% correct and so I wanted to kind of consolidate this into a straddle I was looking at the 21 just to keep a somewhat bullish. I mean My bullish. It's you know 77 cents, but you know to get to like my sweet spot But um, so I was looking to sell the 21 straddle To kind of offset some of the cost of that debit What's the what's the IV rank in? Let's look at chart VW for just a quick second. Let's see the IV rank Okay, so 73% it's high. Mm-hmm. Okay, it's up 17% over the last 10 days Okay, I kind of like I was gonna tell you to roll to the same strikes go back to the trade page I was gonna tell you to roll to the same same strikes, but because of the move that it's had And if I wanted to roll to the same strikes, what would what would you do? How would you how would would you stay inverted? I mean What do you mean? Well, if we here go but let's go back. We're gonna end it. Hello one side Let's go let's go back, but we're gonna end up doing the trade that he wants to do. I think it's the right thing to do um Open up February. I'm sorry and delete that trade that you have in there Just to show everybody who wants to go from inverted to not inverted and keep the same position that they have Okay, yeah, so if I wanted to keep the same position I have on let's buy the 19 call exactly like you were doing By the 23 put exactly like you were doing and now it's going to February Instead of selling I don't want to sell to open the 19 call because it's in the money. Oh, I sell the 19 put Okay, and then I sell the 23 excuse me it was the uh yeah 23 yeah 23 Call that would get me that would get me the same position I have on yeah And you you're doing it $4 wide you're paying 36 debit so you can make about 74 cents on the overall position We have a 40 cent loss right now or 25 30 cent loss right now at expiration if we close in here I give myself a chance to make up to 75 cents to give myself a chance to scratch I like your way better. Yeah, I think our way gives us a chance to at least your way wasn't my way At least gives us a chance to Sneakow profits even if the the stock stays where it is right now because we'll have a total of about two dollars in credit I like it so I have 100% agree with you good good good. Fine. So I'm gonna change March Good job Yeah, okay now you're paying a debit are you really paying a debit? Are you paying a dollar 77 debit? Of course you're paying a dollar 77 debit but You're not locking in a dollar 77 loss You're locking in the 40 some odd loss or 80 cent loss that you have in the front month not locking it in that trades over with And now you're opening up a new trade where you're selling the 21st Straddle that's trading for around two dollars and 60 cents Okay, yeah, all right, so you what did I tell you how are you gonna how are you gonna buy this? We'll start below the mid price so Couple cents below the mid price sure go to 75 maybe yes. Yes. Yes. That five is fine I don't think you'll ever get filled in but this is how you do it. Yeah, okay. Go ahead put it in Okay, since Two things let's go to caterpillar real quick I want to get just a different stock in there. We haven't had one in a while and you took off some Long deltas. I'm sorry. You bought some call spreads that you were short. So you got some You took in some of that short deltie hat. Let's go to trade pages. I mean charges for everybody to see it Stocks sold off about a buck 40 ready. Okay. High implied volatility rank after earning 69 69 percent Stocks had a 13 percent move We were slightly short the market What those deltas in looking for something else to get short caterpillar came up on my radar. Let's go to two A trade page of caterpillar Go to march Okay, so the problem we have here is two and a half dollar wide strikes. So it makes it a little bit harder Okay, okay, so What do we do? I mean if we're gonna go close to the 30 deltas we go to the 67 and a half Call spread or short that 67 and a half. Okay, cuz there's two and a half dollar wide strikes It's hard with the stock you know at 65 if you don't have that many options. All right. Well, let's see what the 67 and a half 70 call spread is trading it and again the stock just sold off a little bit. So Trading around 90 cents. Okay, certainly One third of the width of the strikes is it's right there Stocks sold off a little bit. Let's go into like 93 cents. Okay. Is that okay? I mean Maybe the market will rally a little bit and we'll get filled. Okay. Yeah. Okay Using 160 dollars again Looking for other cards. Okay. I WM you bought back some stuff. We bought back some premium You don't have anything in February and I WM. Let's go to I WM I'm sorry, I meant March You don't have anything in March in I WM Let's put something on what do you want to do? Um Strangle iron condor sell some premium. Okay, so so I get it so when I am I want to hear what your opinion is. I'll give you mine. It's intruded and have one So at 1900 on the EME S at P's 19 1904. I don't have an opinion So I just go right back to my basics my my positions don't don't need anything urgent Delta wise, I don't have to skew anything So I have high implied volatility in I WM. I mean, matter fact, it's uh the highest it's been 228 days The highest it's been in 228 days this year. I V has never been higher High implied volatility rank so let's go to that 30 delta because a hundred dollars stocks can use around $1600 in buying power. Does that make sense to you? Let's go to 105s. We'll go a little bit further out 105s and on the 95s. Let's go to the 93s just to go around that 25% on each one Okay, $2.59. Cool. Okay, let's go in $2.59. It used about 16.000 by power. I think $1,560. Perfect. That's it. And you can move it a dollar or something or two and when the show is over Okay, cool. So what did what did we talk about today? You did an excellent job I actually wanted to go in a different direction with the show. I think you did a really good job on what to do in EWZ I don't think you've gotten filled yet. So you'll have to walk that up. Yeah, after the show. Okay, good Rolling your EWZ position to give yourself a higher probability of success same type of risk you had before and noticing in your account That you only had another $40 to make Why let's go out for duration get some premium as an excellent excellent job, but we looked at selling a call spread in catapult get some short delta And IWM we did a neutral trade we went over all your Greeks in your position to find out where you have your like you know tomorrow I'm wanting after after what we discussed you'd like to see the market a little bit lower and maybe oil unchanged Just gonna hold on your strangle and IWM cool All right, awesome great job out of you. Good job. How do you come up next? Yeah, Tim night. Nats. Peace. Peace
Video: 068 - Rolling Down Using Less Units 02 05 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Yeah, really, isn't it? Yeah. I thought we, I thought after the number of s'moring that we would just... Yeah. 1905 is what I was hoping up for on the E-Mini S&Ps were 19... sorry they're 1870. We were looking good this morning. Oh good of mine. Not that good. That's right. Let's take a look at your account. You got two weeks to February expiration. You got plenty of time. No, I mean the Anfer today too. Oh, today's over. Today you're done. Yeah, today you're cooked. We put a fork in it. We talked about that early on the show about how you know, didn't think the market was going to bounce back today. How just got feeling and market awareness and how the market usually reacts on these type of big days. That's why we were so surprised the other day when the market actually rallied from down 30 to up on the day. Anyway, you're down 400 bucks. You were up 200 bucks. You were just about unchanged. Yeah. You were down about $150 for the year earlier today when the market was down about 10 E-Mini S&P points were down 40 right now trading near the lows. Unfortunately the time of your show to a clock seems to be the worst time for your account. Yeah. All right, so we got to do something about this. Right, let's bet away your position. You still got two weeks to February. We've been reducing some units. We've been trying to roll to March. Just haven't had that day or two of market kind of cyclicality where we just kind of stay in one place. But until he comes in a little bit and then we can look to roll markets are a little more. I want to say forgiving. That's the wrong word. A little bit easier to roll. You can analyze and take a look and see right now. It's got to be damage control and opportunities. So you're down $400. You've picked up 200 delta's. You came in basically flat on the day. Okay. Well, the first thing we have to do is your biggest delta is coming from SPY itself. And then it looks like, well, you know what? With two weeks to go to February, we've got to really look at each individual product. All right, let's go to the queues because that's I think that's the easiest one first. Let's go to the queue trade page. You may as a piece make a new low down 40, down down to 70. NASDAQ down 150, 147. All right, open up February. Okay, so you can open up more strikes. You won't need them though. I think it's got a small position there. Okay, so you have a, looks like you have a $3 wide iron condor. You had the $99.96 and then you had a call spread all the way up. Right? That's correct. Basically worthless. Okay, it's, it's almost a scratch trade. You're probably down. It looks like 271.40. You're probably different from one third of the withers. So you're down about 25, 30 cents on this trade. What do you do? I mean, you roll it. I mean, what does that mean to you? I mean, in this circumstance, you'd leave the, the longs there and just roll the shorts and then buy new wings or roll the whole thing. I don't know. Well, you, you tell me, but I don't have a lot of time to do this. So I was hoping you would say the whole thing. I don't know. You could, you, okay, so you're not going to roll that call spread from the same strike because that's way out of my mind. It's not going to hold the call spread down and then roll the puts in February into March. Okay, well, you're not there. All right, you got to be, you got to be clear. Oh, I mean, you're talking, you're, I mean, you're, you're, you're, you're into the next expiration. Okay, so how would you do that? So you'd have to do each of the spread separately. All right. Eat all calls, all puts. Yeah. Okay, well, you got to be, just be clear. So it's my else notes. Okay, so you would buy the 99, 96. You don't have to do it. I'm not going to do it. By the 99, 96 puts bread in February, sell the 99, 96 puts bread. You sure could. Yeah. Or any other puts bread that you want to. Yeah. Right? As long as you can do it for credit. Small little credit. Or you can leave it. Yeah. It's a $3 wide iron condor that's being tested on one side. All right. So I leave this trade. Okay. Okay, but let's look at Q in March. Okay. Now you put on a wide iron condor. I'm assuming a wide strangling here. I think we were actually at around the 15% on each side. You put it now as a 30 delta. Your call is trading for 17 cents. So that one you roll down in the same expression. Perfect. What are you roll to? So roll down to the 30 delta, the 101 or the 102. Okay. Which one? Let's go to the 101 just to make it equal. Here you go, 33, 33, 33. Right. So it's semantics and it doesn't matter. My personal preference, I probably would go to like the 102 or the 103. Okay. And I tell you why. We're down four points on the cues. We can be down another four points on the cues. We're going to be up four points on money. I have no idea. I'm just playing a little bit of, you know, more conservative. Yeah, does it really matter though? Probably not. Yeah. All right. Let's split the difference. You said what 101? Yeah. I said 103. Let's go 102. 102. 109. Perfect. Going into $1.43, you can let it sit, you can let it wait. It's going to take no additional buying power because you already have that buying power used. Okay. So that's the cues. All right. Can we go into, um, let's go into IWM in an analyzed tab if we could. By the way, um, you had long about in the cues about 30 delta's in the cues 27 or something like that. So I make you exactly flat if you get filled on that spread. Okay. Okay. All right. Um, there's nothing in the in the analyzed tab now, right? In those, okay, you have to open a bunch of strikes. All right. Let's go up to the calls. It's not for one second. So you short some puts, I apologize. You short some puts that are right at the money, correct? Or just out of the money? Yeah. You got five of them total. All right. Let's go, let's go to the call side. All right. You got five of these calls that were protecting your overall position. Now they're trading for 37, 39 cents. They're kind of junky. They're kind of junky. Now we've been looking to reduce units on the call side for days. Let's do two things with, with one trade. Let's buy all five of those 103 calls back. Okay. Now five times 15 is going to give you what around 75 delta's. I'm just looking at delta, right? Yeah. 80 delta's, right? Yeah. Okay. All right. So let's buy that five times. I know you're in the analyzed tab. I want you to be here. We're going to leave that 106. Hold on. Hold on. Okay. You can do me a favor. Um, unclick it for a quick second. I'll just go over the bank power. All right. So you've got, you just got to fill the $1.43. Cool. So you've got 51 long delta's. You got $4500 in buying power. About $35 in theta decay. We're trying to reduce units. We're going to buy five of the 103 calls. You can click it. Hold down the control key. What are you going to sell? Let's go a little further down. The 101, go to the 30 delta. Exactly. Exactly. Now you're only picking up around 40 cents, right? Yeah. Look at all your puts for a minute. Can you go down a little bit further? Okay. So you've got to put, you got two puts that are around 95 cents. You got two puts that are about a buck 25. You got one put that's right at the money. Do you want to go a little closer? On all five. Um, no, no, no, no. We're only going to do three. Okay. So we can reduce some of the units at exactly. Kill two birds with one stone. Okay. So why don't we go down to the 100? Okay. Okay. Now what am I thinking? I'm reducing my units. You can do the 100 and a half. I mean, you know, let's just do the 100s. I'm reducing my units. I'm going to take a look at what my delta is going to be. Let's sell three of those. Okay. You delta goes from plus 50 to plus 20. Your buying power effect doesn't change. Okay. And you're collecting more theta decay. Yeah. Sounds great. Okay. Let's do it. It's got a 95 credit works for me. Do you understand what we did there, though? Yeah, we're perfect. We reduce units so that we could move those calls closer. That's correct. That's correct. Because if we would have done all five, it would have been a lot more buying power. A lot more buying power. One. Of course, a lot more credit. Listen, time will tell whether it was the right thing. It's kind of like getting rid of two things. Trying to keep reducing. You know what I mean? Just reduce, reduce, reduce. Okay. Great. We've got a couple of minutes here. Let's take a look at your SPY position. Yeah, we can do it there. It's fine. Make sure there's nothing in there just to... All right. So in SPY, you're along the most delta. Correct? Yeah. Okay. So let's open up your February position. See what that looks like. Okay. So you're along some other money puts. That means nothing. Okay. So you've got one put that's in the money. That's... That means anything. And you've got some very similar position to what you had in IWM a moment ago. Correct? Correct. Okay. Let's go down a little bit further. What do we have in the calls? Okay. So very, very similar position. Yes. Very, very, very similar position. Okay. So what do you want to do here? Well, we'd probably have to do the same thing and close all five of those and then open three more that are closer to the money. We certainly could. Let's kind of... Let's do this one the other way. Let's keep this one the unit's the same. Okay. All right. And let's see if our buying power changes by much. You've got $7700 and you've got about 90 delta's 5400 and data decay. Let's sell three of the 100. I'm sorry. Let's sell three of the... I have the wrong one here. The 190's? Yes. 190, one and a half's. And by three of the 195's. Okay. So you change your buying power by about six or seven hundred dollars. Okay. You reduce your delta by about half. One of those two calls. Okay. You can change it just three contracts. Yes. Change it to three. Okay. You reduce your delta by about half. You increased your buying power by about seven hundred, not that much. And you collect about $92 and data decay. Okay. Is that okay? Yeah. Okay. And that's not a back ratio. I don't know if that's going to be a delete, you know, that will go through on toss. So just cancel that one out if you want to. Yeah. And just sell the... The 190, one and a half, 95 call spread. If you want to do the 190, one, you can't. It doesn't matter to me. Perfect. 91 sales. Okay. If you get filled on that, you're going to go from around... Should we have about 250 delta's? Two about 150 delta's. Okay. Now we've reduced delta's. Hold on one second. So, sir. Go ahead, we'll be going to say... What about those other two calls that we have there that were further out of the money? Wouldn't we close those and that would free up some buying power? Like the ones that were... Is this the analyzed tab? Yeah, keep going. Which ones? Those two? Okay. See what they do for you. Just click on buying two of them. They'll help you. Not at all, right? Not at all. Yeah. So we just leave them. Yeah. Okay. Because your put side is so much wider than your call side. That's volatility skewer. Remember, anytime you're doing an iron condor if you're trying to sell the one as a 20 delta, you always have to go further out on the put side. So the buying power is already there. Now you can reduce the units in, you know, 50 bucks. We'll do that on Monday when we need to. Okay. If we need to. If it drops further, it'll be cheaper. Okay. So now we've reduced delta, but we haven't like... We haven't sold anything new. We haven't done anything new. And you've got implied volatility. Up at buck 50, you got the world crashing. Yep. Let's do something. Cool. Okay. Let's go into trade pages. Let's go into IWM. Okay. Now remember, your overall portfolio is a little bit long. So let's go to March. And I picked IWM because that's the one that our research has shown has had the best kind of bang for your buck with the stock being around 98 dollars. We just did a market measure on this a couple of days ago. You could search it in our archives if you want to. Okay. So you have a strangle on here already. Mm-hmm. Okay. Do you want to put another one on? Yeah. Okay. What would you do if you're... If you're trying to lean... Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We... Try going to, like, let's say the 102 call and then, like, go to, like, the 20 delta put... Fantastic. Pick up 10. Sure. 10 short. Good. You pick up 10 short delta's, right? Yeah. Perfect. I mean, what are we in there? What do we have in there right now? I can't be right. One minute. I mean, that basically makes us flat on IWM. Perfect. Because we're long 12 delta and IWM. Perfect. Hey, confirm a cent one time. $1,500. Skicksland. Awesome. If you don't get filled in SPY, you don't get filled in that you have to move by penny. Cool. All right. Let's say a quick second and see what we went over here. What do we try to do here? I mean, we went over rolling and looking what to do. We decided not to in this market environment, go from February March. Just kind of not have that, that, not have that, that vague risk. Not having that from, from once is like just move one of the put spreads and leave it. Want to do everything is one time. So what do we do? We reduced our units in one. We rolled down another one and we're looking to take it a little bit of the advantage of the volatility that's exploded today. Cool. So we do stilt. Maybe a volatility crash or we have it this morning, but we do not have it now. We'll see. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Peace. Peace.
Video: 069 - Staying Mechanical With Delta Adjustments 02 08 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start back versus bat how are you son? We're twinning yeah, yeah, we even got the jeans on to complete the Canadian Tuxedo You said it you didn't know you're in trouble now. Let's take a look at your account Which is also in trouble now. Oh, yeah, you may have some piece down 47 and change you're down 1300 bucks for day Wasn't just 48 hours ago where you were basically even you were down You were down like 150 bucks for the Friday last week. I was down about 150 200 bucks at the at the close That's a bad one. That's a bad one. Yeah, all right. So and you got 417 long SPY beta-weight Adelaide Delta's 130,000 theta decay. Okay, what now? Laydown No, no We've put the program we got it's I mean stay mechanical at that. It's a hundred percent correct Did you know that at a time or did you just did you just guess it? I mean you can't forget what you can't do nothing you can't I mean you could do nothing It could do nothing, but you have to get your Delta in line to what you think is acceptable. Yes now The hardest thing to do is stay mechanical on a trade. It's the hardest thing in all the sports It's the worst. Mm-hmm. There's nothing I mean, there's nothing worse than then on a big down day selling Calls lower. Yeah, nothing worse But you got to remember volatility is up two and a half points. That's 10% So even if we get a move back now not a 50 point move back, but a 10 15 point move back These call spreads won't even move and the larger meteor bigger part of your portfolio will bounce back Yeah, now how many Delta do we look to roll down or or get rid of? 25 30 percent sure at least when we're doing it. Okay, let's go into let's just go to a trade page if you want to and we'll look at everything Let's go let's open February options All right, so what's the most mechanical thing when you see this position? You're basically short five of the let's just call them 96 puts. I mean, I'm just synthesizing everything out You got one of the 98s you got two of the 95s two the 96s. Let's just make it five of the 96s That were well out of the money a few days ago. Mm-hmm. What do you do now? I mean those were not really gonna do anything. I got something but what it so so when I look at it so like I say myself. Okay I don't want to go inverted yet. Yeah, but I want to go as close or almost as close or is there even room? So if you've got five of these 96s, I'm looking for anything above 96 now 96 happens to be right at the money. Yeah, so in this example It's not it's not the best, but what strike would you roll down to? Um So I mean if if I wanted to pick up I mean I would go to either than like the 98 30 Delta exactly exactly So the 98 100 call spread three times Treat for around 57 cents. Let's go into 57 cents Yeah, go up one and you know, it's changing perfect Okay, so now hold on a second that's gonna bring you about how many Delta's do you think? The 30 probability of being in the money against a 17 probability of being in the money Let's just call them Delta's 30 versus 17 is 13 long Delta's three times. It's by three 40 40 some odd Delta's right if we rally it'll be more like 50 55 Delta's if we go lower it'll be more like 20 25 Delta's Okay, so you're working you wait to that So I got a third of our hundred that we want to get that's correct That's correct. No, that's not beta-weighted So it's gonna be a little bit more beta-weighted, but you're getting there But I mean I WM is is highly correlated with it is SPY So I would think the beta-weighted Delta is just about one to one to one or close to close enough You're 100% correct. Okay. What's the next thing you could do if you wanted to do something Without using any more buying power Sell I mean like now soon as you sell you're gonna be using a buying power. You didn't use any more buying power right now. Yeah Will we probably have further out like junky long call so you could you could go back up a little bit more to the puts Yes, they it's up right there. You could buy the 98 95 put spread Let's say that's trading for around a dollar 57 or something. Let's take a look Okay Okay, hit confirm and send one time just like improve my point Okay, so you can you move that down just a little bit the what a confirmation perfect. Okay, so what's your break even? On this spread if you buy it. It's memory you're buying a put spread if it was a sand standalone trade You would want the stock to go lower What's your break even on the spread it says it right up there? 96 44 where is iwm right now 95 56 so you're actually buying this put spread that has some premium over parity meaning meaning that the stock can actually go up by a dollar and you wouldn't make anything you still break even Yeah, remember your ultimate goal is you're a little bit long here. Yeah, so here's a way where you could buy this put spread and not like it You're not buying premium is my point you haven't given up yet. Okay Something to consider all right uses about 300 dollars worth of buying power Dude would we do that in addition to rolling the calls down you most certainly can Okay Well, you'll keep it on the side like you decide whether you want to do gets us even more long. I mean that's correct But it gets you longer at 96 and a half not not No, it gets you shorter You're buying a put spread. Yeah, it gets you it's directly bullish Or no, how can I put it? No, it's bearish. Yeah, but it gets you bearish at 96 and a half Which is where yeah, and that's like where our Like spot is where we need to listen you're looking to reduce risk not give up Everything that's one other way you could if you want to pick up some more some more delta. Okay. Yeah, all right. Let's go to SPY I Want to February also In March, you're still a little bit wild you're picking up some delta, but you're real delta is right here Okay, so you're short five of these puts. Let's just call on that you're short basically five of the 86 puts right? I mean, I want to say they're 85 and a half doesn't really matter But let's just say five of the 86 puts. I'm just synthesizing everything out You've got this three lot of 191 calls against it not helping you anymore, right? Hmm Correct. Yeah, and they got this two lot of 197s correct. Yeah, so what do you think you could do here? I mean the same thing That's grow down the 191 and a half down to uh, you can fill down here. Yeah, we're just gonna fill Roll those down to the 30 delta which would be like the 187 and a half I mean we could even go to the 187 sure let's go let's go let's go. Let's sell three of the 187 calls If you just hold down the control key next time it'll you can just keep clicking and then let's buy three of the 191 and a half calls Okay, and then let's get rid of that two lot of 197 calls, okay? Okay trading for ten cents. Yeah, you can hold down the control key eight cents You'll buy two of those Okay, you're still doing that for a credit correct. Yep. Okay Let's do that two three dollars and 50 cents Let's go into three dollars and 52 cents and you can always adjust it later on cool Beautiful, okay diamonds I mean you're staying mechanical here and not trying to give up Everything yeah, I want to get all these filled for the end of the show, so everybody can see what you've you've kind of done with your overall Okay, so the diamonds you've got a little bit wider market here. It's a little bit harder to look at you basically Short the puts that are that are right at the money. Mm-hmm correct. Yep. Okay. What are you looking to do here? Let's look at what you call is our calls at Okay, so anytime you're gonna have a 330 point move on the diamonds. Yeah calls that you're short that three lot not helping you right? So what are we gonna roll down to? Same thing go to the 161 and a half for the The 162 I mean listen, it's completely it's completely up to you. I mean Let's go to the 161 and a half Okay, more aggressive because we haven't been brief. I mean we're not totally breached on the push yet fine fine So let's sell the 161 and a half 16 You just got filled on your on the spy good. Yeah Okay, so you got the one you got the one sixty ones there make those 161 and a half you can just do it right from there Okay, got about a buck ten credit is that work for you? Yeah, okay cool. Let's go in the dollar ten Good you can fill them that too. All right, so let's look at let's look at how your deltas have changed Even the S&Ps are down 45 so they rally a little bit all right So you went from 420 to 260 your theta decay went from 128 or so to about 166 and change Okay, do you need to do that put spread we talked about in iwm? No, okay? Sounds good. I mean we reduced our deltas by enough that we don't need that that puts You reduced your deltas enough for you for me. Yeah, you're happy with it. Yeah But you stayed mechanical and whether you do it by you know a half a third a quarter doesn't matter to me because like Are we gonna crash are we crashing right now? I don't know. I mean all right. We're gonna crash to that question. Are we gonna crash tomorrow? I I mean I don't know I don't know either nobody knows right. I don't know either but I do know if I stay mechanical I'll be in the game regardless of what happens Yeah, this is just a momentary Pain in the butt. Yeah, stinks. Yeah, it does it really does. Yeah, we're so close Friday. No Now You dad would come home for 20 years always being a good mood coach you and football Coach you and baseball days like this happened all the time How you think you did it? Drugs and alcohol. Yeah Let's take a quick break here and go over everything that we talked about what do we talk about here? We really tried to just stay mechanical and where we can pick up deltas from our own portfolio That fits our own criteria now. Do I want to give up those 150 deltas into this down move? Absolutely not Do I hope that that 150 delta Trade comes back to bite me. I most certainly do why because I have to larger part of my portfolio Needing a rally you just have to stay mechanical Hey, by having all of these positions on in February has it hindered or helped You're trading in March What do you mean by that? I mean like My it doesn't affect my trading in March. You have the number of occurrences that you've had in months past No, I wouldn't say that. I mean like we've I don't know I guess we do because we have more lots on in in the bigger ETF So I think it's I mean we're using the same amount of buying power that we've used the whole time So it's pretty much six of one half dozen on another But if I could have it if I can have it a different way I probably would have had rather have more occurrences in different products than having then have them so concentrated in these I agree, but I didn't know that the mark was gonna go down 10% in like you know three days Next time tell me all right Got ten nine nacks. Hey, you may have painted the bottom. Peace. Peace
Video: 070 - Gld Strangle 02 17 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you. Make your back. When do I start? Back versus back. How are you son? Doing alright. Not as good as yesterday. Not as good as yesterday. 60 points and two days. It's a big move. On the E-minus and D's it sure is. 90 points and three days. I mean it's just amazing with nothings. Listen, this is why you stay mechanical. You cover all those short little options that can only grow teeth. You stay mechanical. You roll up the untested side when you can. Now you're... Well let's take a look at your position. I think you're down around what's about $330. About what you made the other day. Right? Kind of stinks right back and forth. It's like you feel like you're not getting anywhere. But you're doing some good things and it adds up and it kind of creeps up on you all the time too. What I mean are the profits. Let's look at your field orders for a moment. It took a nice 25% profit apple early this morning so that $399... That was just a volatility plan. Two or three days of volatility. Well volatility and you leaned a little bit along. Yeah. So you got a both right volatility contracted and you had a little bit of long delta. Not a lot. So you got a little bit of long delta and that worked out nice for you. Twitter we sold a call into strength, which is nice. We wanted to roll down. Can you open up the Twitter position for a quick second at the bottom there? Thanks. We rolled down those Feb 28 puts to the 18 or 19 calls yesterday. We never really got around to doing it. So now we sell the call. Okay. Well that changes. Like I'm afraid. I'm not really. You fall as not afraid of anything. Of course not. Of course not. Yeah. I'm not going to get... And I am afraid of getting twisted in the wind meaning we've been playing Twitter long. We sell a call. We roll down the put and then all of a sudden it's not going to take an over and I have to fight. And it blows through and we give up all that. So we'll take a Simon on the stock. We'll be on 100 shares of stock against one call. It's a relatively cheap stock. Not going to use any more buying power than we already have in the stock. So we'll sit with it. Hopefully what do I want with a covered call? What would you want 30 days from now? Where would you want the stock to be? I mean, if it goes above the 19 we get call away on it. So you want to... Sure. Or you could roll a long time before that right? Yeah. And stock hits 19 or doing 19 amp or 20. So you buy your 19 call in seller 22 or 23 call. If you want to stay in the stock or best case scenario, it just stock blows through 19 and you're done with it. Yeah. Instead of being down 500 bucks you're down 200 bucks or 250 bucks something like that. Fine? Yeah. Okay. So we close up Twitter. So you're good there. X you took a nice profit in there. Something you've been working since I saw on Doe since November. Yeah. We started with the 910 laddered puts for equidated laddered puts. Right? We sold them in November. We sold the 9 in December in the 10 in January. Was it 910 or 1011? I think it was 910. Okay. You could be right. But I think the 9 was like at the money at that point. But you know... Why did you stock on the 7 amp? Yeah. It was going into the 7s in January. I mean we're rolling selling calls against it. It was just one of those positions that we've been massaging for a couple months and we're able to exit for a profit. It's a good fight. It was a good fight. It was a good fight. Good adversary, good fight. Yeah. Mechanical. It was one of those like on the up move today. Volatility contraction. Take the money and run it and get out and move on. You know, move on. Yeah. Fantastic. Alright so that buttons up everything you've done today but now when you beta weight your position you showed about 250 deltas. About 125 more than optimal. Yeah. We were about 125, 150 yesterday. So we've picked up our fix. This is your Vega which was around 2, 250 yesterday. You want to have that ratio around 1 to 2 or somewhere near that. That's just a guide. Yeah. Your theta decay is large. It's 74. We like to get around 1 tenth of 1 percent. You have a 30 some $1,000 account. So we just say around $30 or so. Yeah. I imply volatility. Okay. So what now? I mean to pick up some long deltas we can roll some of our ETF puts that are further out of the money. Let's go from strength first and then we'll go from there. Open up the USO for a quick second. Okay so in UFO you're long at 10 and a half, 11 and a half February vertical spread that can only go out worthless. Yeah. It's already worthless. Yeah. You're naked short the March 10 puts. The stock's up, stock's up 45 cents. Maybe we sell some 10 calls. Not going to cost you anymore buying. Yeah. Wanted to do that? Yeah. Okay so let's go into, I mean this will be selling it to strength because you're going to have to do something pretty soon into weakness someplace else to get some long deltas. Let's take a look at that. So go to March and go to the 10 calls. Where are they treating for around? Okay. Let's sell, let's sell one at 24 cents. Can we just sell the bid? Sure. It's penny wide. I mean I just want to get it done for you just to show you. Okay. Hit confirm and send one time. Hit send. You're buying power reduction was around $300. Let's take a look at what it is in USO. It's going to be around the same thing around $300 in change. Okay. And you just neutralize a little bit of deltas. Not a lot in there, right? I'm not worried about USO getting taken over, right? It's the physical oil. Yeah. Okay. I mean that's a small position relative to some of the other ones. Very small position relative. It's not getting us. Give us a huge relief on our. Totally agree. Totally agree. Okay. SPY. That's where you have your biggest loss today. That's where you have your highest buying power. Let's take a look at your SPY position. You have nothing in February. So let's go to March. You just have long options in February. Penny options that are all out of the money. Okay. So it looks like we have some puts here again. I'm just going to go to probability of being in the money. The first one you have is around a 19. Let's just call it a 20% probability of being in the money. Let's go to your calls, which are now at the money after this huge move. Now these were all out of the money options. You've got one call with a 53 deltas. You've got another call with around a 45 deltas. You've got three more at 35 deltas. That's where you're getting all of your short delta in this position. Correct. Okay. So what would be the logical thing to do? Well, I mean, we would roll up the puts. Sure. So you can roll up, can we go a little bit further? Stay right there. You can roll up those 172 puts to what? You can roll them up to like the 180. You sure, and then could you roll to the one? I could go further. I don't want to jump on my roll because of how quick this move has been. So I don't want to jump and kind of jump on it. Right. The second. I mean, extreme 100 point rally in the S and P's, although we could rally another 100 points in the next three days. You could go to the 30 deltas. I was looking to go to the 20 and keep, I mean, you're putting, you're kind of consolidating them for my positions. I don't know, for my account to have them there all at that same point. The bottom line is that I don't know if I want to jump to rolling them up that far. I like it. With 30 days, you have time to make mistakes. Yeah. With 10, 12, 14 days, you don't have time to make mistakes. You don't want to be mechanical. You don't want to roll up. I get it. You want to play the delta. I'm perfectly. I've done it a million times in my life. I'm perfectly fine with that. Can we, can I just scooch it a little bit as Tim Knight would say or something? Okay. Let me give you some food for thought. Okay. The consideration, exactly what you just said. Let's sell, go up a little bit further for a moment. Let's get a little bit of long delta. Work with me here. Just listen to the whole thing. Okay. Okay. Let's sell the 190. Just listen to me. Okay. 180 put spread. Okay. So close it up for a minute. Now the 190 put is basically at the money. It's got about a 40-some odd delta, right? Let's just call it a 45 delta. Yeah. The 180 put I'm buying. Let's just call it a 20 delta. So it's 25 delta, long delta's I'm picking up. Keeping into, that would be the kind of the mechanical thing to do. Of course I'd rather do it into weakness when the market was going lower, but sometimes I can't afford that, right? Okay. Let's now go to the call side to make an iron condor. Now my put side was close, but I want to collect a little bit more premium, right? Yeah. I'm not rolling up my existing position. I'm actually adding to another position, putting on more trades into high implied volatility, skewing it a little bit longer. Not a lot, but a little bit. Let's sell the 201 call, which is around that 15, 16% probably being the money. Something we'd be comfortable doing as an opening trade. Sell the 201, and let's buy the 205. So we won't put as much risk to the upside. I mean, it's 25 cents. So we pick up like 15 long delta. That's correct. You pick up about 15 long delta, but you're doing $3 worth of credit, which gives you a break even on the downside to about 187. Now that's on one contract. You have four others that are going to, you want this trade to be a loser. Or at least go down towards the 207. 207, yeah, that's kind of my sweet spot. Okay. I feel for thought. We'll put it in, we'll put it in right at 301, and just look at it, it was mid price at $3 a moment ago. So I don't think you'll get filled at 301. Let's just go put it in a 301. That 301 is fine. Let him, let him think if he wants to put the trade on. Okay. Okay. Buy and power affects $414, not a lot of money. Yep. Okay. So we're putting, so what I tried to do there was, I put risk on both sides because you wanted to keep the delta. Yeah. And you basically keeping the delta. Yeah. I mean, the 15 isn't that much delta. I think we have what we got in there. One, almost 150 short delta, so the 15 is 10%. Okay. We got a couple of extra minutes here. Let's go to GLD. Cool. And let's open up the March position. Now in GLD, you have a $3 wide iron condor. Now we talked about this full disclosure because we usually don't talk about the show before we do it. We talked about maybe rolling up your ones at the time, like rolling up the call spread, the put spread. You really can't get that much for the put spread. You get about 70 cents for it. It's not that bad. By 70 cents, I mean selling the 111, 8 put spread and buying back the 103, 101. Can I give you another food for thought? Yeah. The 111's got about a 50% chance of a touch, a little bit more. So it's not like you're out of the game. Yeah. I mean, the 100s and 103 is worth it right now and there's not much premium left in it. So I figured there's just a reason to keep it. Agreed. I'm looking to use more money. Yeah. GLD has a high implied volatility rank. Yeah, you sell. Well, let's take a look. Okay. Okay. So I was thinking, again, you talked about maybe doing, now where do you want this position? Shoot, order to come. Where do you want this position to go? Obviously, a little bit bearish between 111 and 103 is my sweet spot. So you're bearish. Whether you like gold today or not, the position is bearish. Yeah. So let's try to kind of do the same thing that you want to do, but maybe have an opportunity to make more. It's a little bit more aggressive, but 30 days to go, let's be aggressive. And you freed up, you know, about $6,000 over the last couple of days with Apple and X and some of the other ones we close. And SPY rolling up. That's why I see. Yeah. It's selling the 111 put. Stay with me. We're just doing exactly what you want to do on the roll up. Sell the 111 put and let's sell the 124 call. So a strangle here. I mean, this strangle here, you're going to the same 16% on the outside. So here, let's click it. So here's one that gives you a little bit of long delta offset, a little bit of your short delta, still collecting $2 in premium for the overall trade. You still want the stock to be below 111. If we get to 111 in the next two weeks, you'll be able to manage winners in all positions. Okay. I like it. Sounds good. Let's go into one, you can adjust the price later. Good? Yeah. All right. Let's take a quick second here and go over everything we talked about. You went over your existing trades that you put on. We got fortune enough in Twitter to sell some calls on a rally. You got fortune enough to sell some calls in the USO on a rally. And then we kind of took those fortunate situations and we kind of massaged ever so slightly your SPY position, not really rolling up the puts, which I would have preferred to do, but you want to be a little bit more aggressive with your delta, which is absolutely cool. You understand the risk into it. Okay. But we skewed kind of an iron kind or $10 Y versus $5 Y and put the put spread a little bit closer. So you're not at least adding on to the same exact position. And then in gold, we kind of worked a position in there too. Now for tomorrow, you've got to find another stock. We found Apple, which worked out great. You made 25% in two or three days. Now you got to find another trade so that we're not just heavy into all the ETFs. An oil. An oil. Yeah, oil's bailing out today. Oil's up $1.56. All right. Who goes up next? Tim Knight next. Good job, buddy. Peace. Peace.
Video: 071 - Don T Trust The Greeks 02 19 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Okay, let me centralize everything about that view. All I need to do is for the year. I mean, we don't want to put any... No, I know. It stinks being in the red. You took us up out of $4,000 whole, $4,000 plus whole. It's a lot. Let's put up your account and see what it looks like. There we go. You're $400 today. That's a big day. One of your bigger days. I downed still $110 for the year. I just called that unchanged for the year. I don't know. Taking a little bit of liberties with the whole process. Pretty nice. Yeah, it is. It is good. It means absolutely nothing. You know that, right? Of course. Because we're not here to pay commissions. It doesn't stop now. Right. It doesn't stop now. But do you have a little more faith in the process? I think there were times when we were training that you were questioning the whole thing. You would sarcastically have to show us over. You would sarcastically say stuff to me like, let's just buy a call in Netflix. Or let's just buy a point. I'm not sure if that call just... That would take you a long time. Yeah. Are you a little more... A little bit. Imagine if we were making money one day. Yeah. That would be... I mean, it builds confidence when you see that things work. Okay. So do you trust your Greeks at the bottom there on the page? Let's bet away your position. Let's get to today's quick lesson. No. Because if my Vega would be... I wouldn't be making this much money if... Do you know all your... The way it was working. You wouldn't be making this much money. Well, you got... It's Vega and price, right? Yeah. You got a small down market. And you've got... No, that's not the question. Do you know all your positions up there? Yeah. Okay. I mean, not every strike or... Yeah. You've got a good idea, right? Are you long theta or short theta? I'm long theta. I have positive theta. Right. So that's got to be because I have options expiring... Like long options expiring today that are... That are kooky. 100% correct. Wow. You must have like spoken to a customer or something like that on the phone or something. They talk to you a lot of them today. Look, bet you have... Let's take a look at the analyze page. We'll go into the diamonds just... Because it's one of the bigger ones. It has a negative theta decay, $84. Let's open up the February... You don't have to open up the options. Make the bottom larger, I apologize. And... Unclick... Uh... There you go. Perfect. Now, unclick the February... February options. Because they're going to be gone tomorrow, right? Now, your theta decay goes from around $80 some odd dollars, whatever it was, to a positive $6 dollars. You do that throughout all of your trades that are going and then you can get a fair look at what your theta is. And I have a lot of those in all the ETFs, so that's probably why it's such a drastic swing. That's correct. Now, let's say, Fargemon says that you had... You were looking for 100 positive theta decay in your account, hypothetically speaking. And you had that one small position. You see how small it is. I mean, it's nine options or eight options. I can't read it from here, but it's nine options. Nine options, that is. Got the hearing going, the eyes going. Well, the hearing's fun still. I might be taking over soon for somebody else. Then you hold cheese. Well, there's a couple of years that I don't even think you'd be able to take it over. So, taking it over soon would be a big help. What do you think now? Now, I think you're doing quite well. I think you're moving forward. You move on the right direction. OK, yeah, I'll take that. You still got a little... A little bit. A little bit to go. A little way to go. We can adjust that. All right. It's just those silly nine options. If you might be going to your whole position and not realize what your theta is because of those silly nine positions. All right. So, I just want to teach you about, like, you know, trusting your Greeks' expiration. You brought up some good things to me. Let's go back to the Monotab, which I have to be honest with you. And I'd love to be honest, because I think at 53 years old and the point I am in my life, I have no reason to lie to anybody. I miss this. And I'm talking about XLE. Let's open it up for a quick second. I missed it because in my account, I typically trade more than one option at a time, one spread. It's $15 per strike, exercise assignment fees, $30 for an in-the-money spread, which what you have. Yeah. That max loss, as it is right now, if you have one contract, 10 contracts, 50 contracts, it's still the same $15 per strike. Yeah. $30 total. So, with that one contract on, you should close that today, pay the $50 commission $3 total as opposed to $30. And we'll probably have to pay a penny or two above. Look at this. The smile. We'll have to pay a penny or two above the max loss just because the quote unquote, other side knows this position. You know, and you know that there. Well, since they know the position, they have costs too. Yeah. With five days to go or three days to go, maybe even one day to go, not meaning to date with no days. Maybe one or two days to go, they might be willing to sell that at $3 because you never know what could happen. Yeah. Maybe their cost is half percent or a quarter of a cent. They want to make a penny at least on every trade. So you might have to pay $3 and one cent, two cents or $3 and three cents. Let's just highlight the trade right now. We'll pay $3 for it, see if we get filled. And if not, you can cancel and replace it. Cool. Yeah, there's no rush. I mean, we still have another hour. Let's go in $3 if we could. OK, great. You have another position. XLE has been this whole year. We've been long XLE. And you have a positive P&L in there. That's because that straddle that we put on, the... When it's gone to our short strike, right? I mean, 55 is what we want. The stock is 56 and change. We put this on. I think when the stock was around 53 or so. So we've got that move up a little bit of long delta. Now it's basically neutral. You're up about $1.30 on that trade. And we were looking to get about, it's a straddle. So 25% is. It's a straddle. I think you sold it for around 588. OK, so we'll say around 6. OK, pinpoint it. OK, so 588. So how much are you looking to make approximately? So I mean, about $1.50 is what I was looking for. If I wanted a little bit generous on it. I don't know, it came in with only a couple days. So you're there. Yeah. So yeah. OK, so we can consider taking off. OK, my way to Monday, I don't know who's who it is. OK, sounds good. You wanted to trade, and we've got about four minutes. You wanted to trade FXY. Yeah. Let's go into FXY for a moment. Bullish bearish or neutral on FXY? I was going to go bearish. OK. I mean, it's blown up. There is a totally agree with you. $86.02 high implied volatility rank. That would be the bottom number 62. And it's got a high IV percentile of 99%. That's that new script that we're using. We started using it today. You can go to TastyTrade.com. Go to the Ops and Gide from today and find the script there. I put the banner back up too. So the banner is there for today. Perfect. So this is right in the front of the page. If you refresh your TastyTrade page, correct. Well, you can always go to support.tastytrade.com to get all the script he just copied and pasted. Pretty easy things to do by doubt that Tom Sousa would be able to do it. Yeah. Probably not. I agree. 100%. All right. Let's go into FXY and take a look at what you see. So let's open up the March options. OK. Good markets, bad markets. I mean, they're a little bit wide. And say a lot of bit wide, right? 10.15% wide. OK. That one is 5 cents wide. Sure. I mean, 10.15% wide on the calls. OK. Volume. Yeah. Kind of crappy, right? Yeah. OK. So unless you really had conviction and acts to grind in here, you might look to sell a call spread with a wide market. Yeah. Right? Yeah. It's not enticing. Yeah. Not so much. At least not to me. You have a short, you just made a way to position a moment ago. You're short about 200 delta in SPY when we made a way to position. How about we go into an ETF like IWM and put on one of those dynamic iron condors where we're selling the strike at 20, probably being in the money, approximately 20 delta, and buying it at 10 delta. I think it's only going to be about $3 or $4 wide on the put side and $2 wide on the call side. You only use about $150,000 by per hour. I mean, I want to stay active. I want to look for another trade. But I don't want to go crazy. I mean, things are going pretty nice for us. Volatility is still really, really high in those. Correct. There's going to be a completely neutral trade. You're not putting any on any more short delta. Because if you do a strangling, you're still putting on a little bit of short delta. This would be no short delta. And you're actually putting a little bit more risk to the put side because your put spread's going to be a little bit wider. Kind of fits. Are we staying in March? Are we going to go for it? I think we're staying in March. Come Monday. At this point, you could kind of go to either one. You could certainly go either side. But for us, since we're already, we haven't even started in March. It would be no wrong answer. 56 days, I think it is. It's a little bit long for me. OK. A little bit long for me. 50 days, I start kind of thinking about it. OK. All right, let's go in the March. You just want to go to calls and go to calls. Whatever. Just stay with the puts. Let's look at what? Like the 94 puts? Yep. OK. So let's sell the 94 puts. If we're trying to buy the one with a 10 delta, let's go to the 90 puts. OK? I mean, we're just rounding, right? So you got a $4 wide put spread. Let's go to the call side now. I think you're looking at a round. Let's go to 105's. I mean, if you had long delta, I would probably tweak and go down to 104's. You have short delta. So I'll tweak it a little bit and go to 105's. Because we want to carry a little bit of short delta. That's correct. So we'll do the 105 and then the 10 delta. Yeah, you're looking at the 107's. So you have a $2 wide call spread against a $4 wide put spread trading for $0.85. I don't think you'll get filled at $0.85. We can put it in. You can try it a little bit later. You're only using about a 100 and 20. Yeah. Let's go to 105's. Let's see what happens. Go ahead. Very good. You're only using $121 in buying power for the overall trade. So it's not like you're putting a lot of money to work here. But keep in the process. Yes, moving. Keep the process going. You all right? Yeah. XLE. You're not thinking about closing it? The straddle. I mean, we can. No. I just want to listen. When it goes, when it goes wrong, I just want to make sure that you have the opportunity to manage a winner right near your productions. Just like when we open up on Monday, my account's up. That'll be all mine. Now you know the future. Let's take a quick break here and go over everything that we talked about today. Really, we went through your position. And it was like, do you trust your Greeks? And when I asked you on the amount of tab, what do you look for? And what do you see? You started looking at your vague and your delta made a little bit more complicated than I wanted to go to. But really, we were just looking at your theta decay. Your theta decay was off by about $150. And then we figured out why. Because of all those options that are expiring today, you're kind of getting a false reading on your theta decay. You're getting a one day reading instead of a full cycle of reading through your position. And the next thing we did was we looked at FXY, because it was something that you wanted to trade. Decided that the markets were too wide in there, especially for what's going on right now. Things are going good. You're not looking to press any trades. Unless you had real conviction, one of the others. Didn't want to force it. And then we looked at a dynamic iron condor in IWM, where we sold the strikes at the 20 delta, but the strikes at the 10 delta only put about $120 at work, possibility of making us full $80 on the trade. I mean, we probably closed that for a $40 winner, if we could, in a short period of time. One trade that we regret missing, and you had it up there I didn't get to it today, but a bunch of KVM. I have to do it. Yeah. And we're going to keep Twitter on. We're going to take assignment. Twitter, we're going to take assignment just because we don't want to, yeah, I don't think Twitter is ever going to be taken over. We have another uptick in its life above $20. But I'm not going to lose money if it does. OK. More money. Yeah, if it does. All right. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Nye next. Peace.
Video: 072 - Portfolio Tweaks 02 22 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start that versus that how are you son good? Saw Monday I didn't mean that's what do you mean you're not too bad? Could be the market's going against me and I got volatility contracting so he's helping you on the contract Yeah, so I mean it could be a lot worse than what we're seeing Okay, all right, it could be a lot worse. So how do we take advantage of that? I mean manage our existing positions or put on new ones Yeah, we're doing nothing. No, we're doing nothing What do you do? So you're so you are almost unchanged, right? You were down 150 bucks for the you now down 400 with down down to 50 today Okay, so what do you do? Let's pay to wait your position first thing. I guess that's the first thing I do You know you're gonna be short delta right? Yeah, do you remember when you were short delta before today short 200 200 so you picked up a lot. Yeah another 150 delta. Yeah, if they get 250 We probably should get that delta a little bit into line. You wanted to hold a short delta Mm-hmm it worked for a couple days today didn't work. Yeah, so what do you do? Let's take a look at your position. So we're gonna tweak your portfolios really what we're gonna do So let's go into the diamonds DIA that'll be the easiest one and then we'll go into Let's go to a trade page and then we'll go to IWM which will be a little bit harder of a thing I think the diamond one is a good one to go into because it's It's gonna be pretty good. Let's take a look. Okay, so you should a call It's basically at the money open up a bunch of strikes and you're sure to put you have to open up a lot more than that because I have half Delawide strikes now you might have to go to 100 You know we did this originally as like a The 20 delta 10 10 delta dynamic iron condor a Dynamic a dynamic iron condor. Okay, that's that's now moves well outside of our range, right? So I mean taking that 52 put up Closer to the money would probably be the most prudent thing that would make sense you agree Yeah, okay, so where are we gonna take this 52 put to so let's buy the 52 put well, let's see. We're short about 40 delta there So But remember you're short 350 No, I know but if we want to like cut that in half we would go to the 30 delta spot You stay make you stay mechanically you stay you go to the 30 delta spot you want to go to the 161 Does that work for you? Yeah, okay, put on an even strike. Yeah, I agreed with agree with you. Okay, one 11 Let's go in at 111 Yeah, 115 If you don't get filled you move it down the mini S and P's just down take a little bit But you can see the markets are wide in the diamonds you can change that later. Okay, let's go to IWM Even yes, it's up about 22 75 They were up around 28 on the high for the day Okay, so the diamonds have a much different story if a lot more contracts That's why I said that I'm sorry in IWM and IWM have a lot more countries the diamond one pretty easy We're rolling up the untested side the utilities contracted. It's helped us with our short call We're gonna roll up our put into contracting volatility, but you need the deltas. You have them everywhere else, right? Okay, the larger part of your portfolio is short. Yeah, okay, so here you have a lot more So you've got the 87 puts that are trained for 10 11 cents. They're not doing any good. Yeah, 89 puts aren't doing any good and You've even got a 93 put that's not doing any good and then you don't have any more puts. Yeah, so Keep going for a little bit your calls are basically all at the money or in the money. Yeah, all right, so what would you do here? I mean, would we so let's let me let me think about going closer Of course, but let me give you a little bit of a cheat sheet. What are we always looking to do in a best-case scenario? We want to reduce our units and we want to Lower our delta risk without using any more buying power. That would be nirvana With contracting with sorry with expanding volatility. You don't have expanding volatility. Yeah But you've been short Four calls that are at the money that have benefited from that contracting volatility those puts that you have now aren't gonna benefit from From anything contracting volatility expanding volatility nothing's gonna matter there so far out of the money They're just not gonna move for the next 25 days. They're gonna stay right there So why don't we buy back those four puts and sell two of something a little bit closer? You just got filled it on your puts better one 11 cool. All right, so let's let's go back to those puts Let's buy one of the 93 puts if you want to Do you understand what I'm trying to say so we looked at two exact positions Two different and exact positions. I mean they're both basically the same one was short one contract at the money This one's short for but your puts are so far away You got to do basically the same thing because they're not doing anything for us. Well, well, it's all delta risk Yeah, you want to hold the delta risk you hold the delta risk if you want to reduce the delta risk reduce the delta risk I think what 25 days to go I think you have to reduce the delta risk in my opinion. Okay, so we're buying the 93 put will buy one of the 89 puts If you click twice will buy two of the 87 puts And we do this all with one click just stay there just you minimize it if you want We'll sell two again same type of thing what put you want to sell Go to the 30 98 perfect sell two of the 98 puts Okay, great $57 credit Don't want to increase price. Yeah, okay. Let's go one penny lower. Let's go one fifty seven So you can change it. Yeah, if we don't get filled you can change it Okay, okay, you talked about X let's go back to the monitor tab if we could for a quick second you talked about I talked about XLE yesterday. Yeah, yeah, Friday on Friday You were up about 50 bucks total on the overall position. I said you've had this thing on for the longest time We're right around your strike. We were at 57 and yeah, I said why don't we think about closing it? What was your answer to me? I want to hang on to it. Okay. Now you got a move that's outside of the daily expected move We're right at the right about the expected move you came to me this afternoon said let's close it I Mean it's still profitable right now. It's still profitable trade is profitable that you have on your net P&L isn't profitable for the year Yeah, cuz we had that iron condor that was a full-boat loser. I get it. That's not the point my point is you close things in a best-case scenario When it's working out for you. Mm-hmm. Not when you're scared Do you does that? Yeah, I get that but I mean that's just a motion then So to keep to keep Going with what you want to do let's do half of closing it because I can't close it today After you cost me 50 bucks from yesterday from Friday. Yeah, okay, all right? So let's go to XLE and let's roll up the untested side Okay, okay Does that make sense I mean we're gonna roll up in it's keeping in March. Yeah, yeah, yeah 25 days So what would you do here if I'm rolling up the untested side what would you do? Roll up the puts I mean you're gonna roll them up to either the 50 air of 57. Yeah, 57 55 puts bread. Let's sell it cool 57 55 you got 63 cents perfect. Let's go in 62 cents looks like the markets a little bit wide. Let's see what happens You can always change it later on You got filled 62 cents. Okay, so now what are we gonna do since we since we reduced some delta there kind of into I mean that's into weakness right? We're rolling up like closing it yet on Friday would have been like The traders all rolling it today is kind of like you know the newbie play Okay, so let's go into oh IH now oh IH can you go to the monotep for a quick second? You know IH actually have a nice profit in it. You got about a $60 profit on the overall trade That's just it that doesn't include what we were I get into it from last year. I get but I'm just saying from to It doesn't listen. I've been trading. I've been training away. H now for the last 10 years I don't consider what I did in 2007 but I've been part of my part of my profit and loss of 2016 Yeah, no, I gotta throw the line somewhere. Will you profitable in 2015? I mean I don't care for you. Were you yes or no our overall account? Yes, okay? So if you're profitable in 2015, I don't care if you've made it with your left hand or your right hand But in 2015 you're profitable. Can I draw the line and I say okay? How am I gonna do in 2016 if I made money in ABC product in 2015 and lost money in DEF in 2015? I don't care if I make money again ABC or I make money in D.F. I just want to make money Like a trader. Yeah, no, I I hear you Okay, so we're gonna shoot from strength this time for crying out loud. Okay, you got oh I aged rallying a $0.80 What are we gonna do in oh I hate so let's take a look at the trade page? I mean if we want to keep going we can probably roll this we could it is it you could roll it to You could roll down the put a strike you sir if you roll it you certainly could I want to keep the portfolio the way you've had it so far So we've we've kind of reduced delta in one place. Let's reduce delta in this place So we're we're you know in one we were doing from strength, which is this one the other one we're doing from a little bit of weakness So we got a we got a roll down here. Okay, so I mean so what do you do? Roll calls or puts the calls? Okay, what's right you gonna do? I mean you could go to the 45 and a half or the 24 and a half or the 25 I agree 24 and a half is the same thing I don't you're at the money so mm-hmm We just a little bit off of their highs not too much. Let's go in a 57 cents. We'll see what happens Boys are taking less let's go. It's taking less time than I thought okay GLD If you remember correctly we put on a spread a few days ago. Yeah, I think on the 17th it was a strangle. Yeah, it's kind of skewed to the upside correct We sold the 24 124 121 so let's buy back the 121 put for a moment You go buy back the call to we'll buy back we're gonna buy back the stride so you can buy the 124 color though 111 puts in the 124 call that was what they said 121 No, maybe I did 111 put and By the 121 call I Just want to show you where it's trading yet. I mean you got the movie wanted the stocks down two dollars We did this spread at 201 We did it on the 17th. We're looking to make a dollar. It's a complimentary trade to an in-the-money Iron condo we have that's now going More in our favor at this is going on favorite this point. So that's 25 days to go now You can take this off which would free up around 18 or 19 hundred dollars which you don't need in buying power close it up for a quick moment Go back up for a little bit or Stop right there. You can buy back one of your 111 114 call spreads I mean each one of them is gonna reduce delta If you buy the 111 111 111 111 111 111 111 calls for me just to show you what I'm talking about One is buying premium the strangle that we're closing you'd be buying premium Okay, here you'd actually be neutral on premium Look at where the stock is one 1560. Yeah, you're basically taking that yeah, I mean it's right in the middle of my strangle You strangle's right in the middle so you if you bought that back you'd be ringing the register on a profitable trade Yeah, if it was a standalone trade, I probably would close it. Yeah, exactly looking at your overall position I've got this crappy in-the-money call spread that I'm kind of protecting. Mm-hmm I just protected it a little bit now. I can buy this call spread that's going to be worth three dollars if the stock stays here Or above 114 for under two dollars or right around two dollars. Mm-hmm. Maybe I'd buy that and I'm actually Not buying any premium because I'm buying all intrinsic value Because those both those options are in the money. So that's correct So which one do you do I would rather do that and just Okay, you're using you're not you're not freeing up as much buy power But you don't need the buy power right now today and you're portfolio. Yeah, okay? Let's go in it one well, what's the best way to do this? Flip it and see what other status trade in Very good make it the one oh make it puts make it to put set of calls make it puts So straight for around 103 102 so it was about right at 190 Change it back to calls at about 198. Let's go in at 198 and if you get filled or don't get filled you move it But the two of them to together should be close to three dollars No, right some of it sticking at least a little bit doing really really good. I think so too No, you really are you doing you're doing really really good very proud of you very hard for me to say but I'm very proud of you Let's say a quick break and go everything over everything that we talked about today I think you did an excellent job of tweaking your portfolio. I think in that small period of time you did four or five trades I think we have one more left working. You did that all under 15 minutes or wrapped around 15 minutes. I think you've changed your your Spy beta-weight adult does buy about 60 or 70 not a lot But you still get time on your side which 25 days all right. Yeah, good job. I'll give you something who comes up next you got Tim night next peace
Video: 073 - Looking For Trades 02 23 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back. Where do I start? That versus bat? How are you son? Awesome? How come that net positive on the air first time? Let's take a look at it real quick before things change And what you're talking about is your piano and your overall account, right? Yeah 42 bucks for the year Have not been able to say that all of 2016. Yeah, yeah today you got 230 bucks. Good day. Yeah, it is nice move down yesterday on the EMS of peace Basically after the three o'clock close from like three o'clock 315. Yeah Eight or nine points. Yeah, Timberlake The clothes I was down a lot more than I like look back. I was whoa, right, right? And then you get a nice movement today EMS of peace down 17 dollars your cash some short delta. Let's take a look at your Beta-weighted delta. That's not like everything you have as a winner You're taking some some losses in XOP today, too, right? I mean, that's the way that you count is are you short 200 delta's your Vegas 297. I mean, this is just about what you want right? Okay, so What do you do today? Add some new trades. Yeah, you're gonna have to now. Let's take a look at volatility before we do that I think that's what this this whole today's whole show should be a little bit about just like finding a new trade Finding things to do. Let's go into a chart of a moment of forward slash VX Now that's the volatility future. It is up 90 cents today a little over 4% But you can tell that it's come from you know a high of let's throughout the high of 28 and change Let's just say from $27 down to $22 and it's just a higher end of the range of the lower end of the range I mean, it's on the lower end. It's on the lower end of the range for the most recent range in the last 10 days or something like that It's down 19% or so if you're looking at the last month. I mean, it depends on how far you go I don't want to be in this picture, you know anything more than what it is, which is just a picture Yeah, volatility is higher than it's been over the last six months, but it's certainly lower than where it's been over the last month Month and a F. Okay, so you kind of have to take that with the green assault like you know, don't Not the time to get like super aggressive like we get aggressive when volatility was expanding I think you did the right thing and you got paid so you you know it worked out for you. Okay, so Let's take a look while we're here in the charts. Let's just look at XLE because you have a position in XLE that just turned overall Positive for the year, but our specific trade it has been positive We we rolled yesterday. We rolled up a putt. So we're actually inverted But Our overall credit on the on the on the trade puts us, you know, this is This is right where you want right you're in XLE You're short the 55 call and the 57 put and we're right in the middle of our two short strikes 56 in change Still have a decent high implied volatility rank of 57 IV percentiles 81 percent So you still got some you still got some nice premium in here actually better than I think a lot of products that we have right now Okay, maybe we do something XLE. Yeah, yeah, I was I was looking at Let's go to trade page please a neutral iron condor. I mean we we have the buying power to Go with a strangle or straddle or or a non-defenderous trade, but okay, so tell me March or April I was gonna look in April. Okay, start establishing those positions. Mm-hmm. And so I was looking at the 51 48 putt spread okay, so $3 wide putt spread pretty classic and then the six Yeah, and then the 61 64 call spread three dollars wide You know, so it's so it's completely neutral Yeah, it's five dollars and your five dollars are on the calls, but only slightly A little bit wide $92. Let's do our little trick here. Let's just to see if the mid price changes let's change this from a sell iron condor to a buy Okay, it's 101 why don't you try to well if this is what you want to do here? So let's make it back to a cell so we don't make this mistake And let's go in at 101 just Okay, um change single to blast all if you don't mind All right, so I was thinking you could do whatever you want I'm gonna give you a little something different because we don't really talk about this in depth before we come on the show because I like it to be organic Sometimes you get mad at me that I like it to be organic, but I think it becomes real that way when you're asking questions on the fly I'm maybe it doesn't look you look as prepared sometimes, but that's my fault. Let's get out of April and go to March Okay, so like you said you already have a position that's wrapped around at the mice Let's just say it's simulating a 56 straddle Because that's what it is. Yeah 55 call 57. You've got a small profit in here. It looks like around 20 bucks or so 25 bucks on the on the on the whole thing. Okay, you still have a high implied volatility rank And again, I kind of like I might like you to trade a little bit better because it's a little bit different than going into another Strangle again, but with 24 days to go in March It's hard to do an iron condor because you don't get enough premium for the for the widths that you have It's kind of you know 45 days being the best certainly brings you more into April than to March I was looking at another trade just to kind of simulate what we have on here and take this this trade that we have Almost kind of like add to it. I was looking at selling the 54 put and selling the 59 call And that brings in around a dollar 90 No, it's gonna be about a dollar 95. It's actually a little bit higher than what I was looking at before if you click on it It'll change the expected price Right there perfect great. You'll see on the bottom there it makes the expected price Natural 191 mid price 195 only uses about $800 in buying power. Let's just call it $850 Using $850 of buying power versus only $200 worth of buying power for yours I'm looking to make a dollar on at 50 percent you're looking to make 50 cents at 50 percent Neither traders better than the other yeah, it all depends on what you want to do Okay, so when we're done with the show You pick one of these trades, okay? I'll give you my little piece of paper It's 59 54 and you know your strikes are the April one six was yeah, I got you if If I want to be involved in XLE And have like a less Aggressive trade on not because it's a strangle versus an iron condor because of the time March versus April I go into April If I have what I think is an opportunity for volatility contract and I want to put on a lot more premium And I want to be a little bit more aggressive than I go into March, okay? Yeah, all right yesterday in IWM We did something that ends up being pretty good. We bought four puts back. Let's go to IWM We before puts back in IWM and sold out two Puts a little bit closer than 98 puts now. We've gotten them moved down in IWM of around 75 cents You can effectively afford to sell up to two more puts to be equal on both sides What I'm saying is you have short four short calls and you have only two short puts you're leaning a little bit short in IWM Not that much. You're short about a hundred delta's in IWM So for argument sakes if you sold one put at around a 30 delta and bought another one at say a 10 delta You'd be changing your delta by about 20% but you'll be doing it into weakness Which is kind of what you want that's if you don't want to keep the 200 short delta's that you have Listen, you know, it's really easy sometimes Well, maybe it's not and it's always been easy for me like when something's going Against me. I understand the mechanical thing to do times much better at kind of giving up The like like taking advantage of the direction like you you're getting paid today in IWM Yeah, I WM you're up $50 on your position volatility is expanded You know, volatility is up, you know, 4% 90 cents these puts are a little a little bit fatter You can afford to sell a put maybe you think about selling a put in IWM Okay, again you 97 you're similar to that yes, yeah around 97. I mean you can go down to 96 entirely You know, it's entirely up to you okay, okay, it's still keep pretty much of a bearish to neutral stance, you know Think about it if you sell the 96 puts and IWM is down another dollar tomorrow Those 96 puts which are 90 cents will look like the 97 puts which are a dollar 10 mm-hmm You know, it's not gonna move a huge amount. It's not gonna use 10 20 cents exactly on a $1.75 to $1 move Okay, that may be about so the expands a little bit and moves 15 cents or 14 cents But the rest of your position kind of makes up for that so like what I'm trying to show you is like don't Don't think like you know like you're changing the overall position and not changing the overall position You take advantage of the buying power that you have to use Okay, you wanted to talk about some ladder puts in X. Mm-hmm. Let's go to X for a quick second Okay, so you've got March with 24 days April with 52 days and May if you so choose with 87 days May is a little far out. Okay, so let's look at the so that only leaves us with March and April then let's open up March Okay, so so here is a situation where You tell you tell me now change the change the position and probably being in the money to taste the trade and will give you return on capital Okay You tell me so what do we like to I very early on in our show I talked to you want to get a dollar for each of them Net out of the two Letter puts right? No, no, it's a pretty good guess. We'd like to get um Like 1% 24 days 24% return on capital would be huge Okay Here you can certainly get a well over 1% even a 2% yeah sounds amazing But when you look at it because it's such a low price stock and eight dollar stock you're really only collecting 40 cents Yeah, so it's not a lot of premium there. Yeah, I was looking more at the at the April I mean the April the eights were trading at like a dollar 25 And that's I mean Okay, 22. I know it's at the money, but You know if you're gonna take a directional play on On a low price stock like that to you know, it's it uses about $300 in buying power you can get You know if you're gonna manage that at at 50% you're looking at you know 25% We turn on capital on that play if you're if you're bullish on the stock. I don't know Well, let's look at X let's see what X has done. So here before we get to X it fixes down 5 to 10% I think it's a no-brainer trade you probably should make it. It's been I mean it's been up of Recently, I mean, let's take a look. Yeah, okay. Let's go into X take a little chart All right, so it's up 17% I know listen 17% on a $7 dollar eight dollar stock You know you're talking about a dollar. Yeah, I mean, it's it's not a large move so that percentage is kind of misleading again You have to kind of take everything with a grain of salt. You got to look at IV rank is 50 the IV percentile is 87 But when you scan across there, you know that 50 is on the lower end Kind of looks like a it's not really it's really a lot of gray areas not really checking the boxes. I hear you Does that make sense? Yeah, all right cool. Let's take a quick break and go over everything we want to talk about today first of all Great day for you. You should remember this day Tuesday February 23rd a week later So we have more days like two weeks or so late after valentines day But you finally got your your market finally kissed you your up $65 for the year Which I think is amazing after being down $4,000 this year and you're only trading ones and twos at a time You're only trading one time two times during the day during the show I think it's a great accomplishment for you to be very very proud yourself You looked at a trade in XL lead to do either an iron condor in April or a strangle in March the front month then we talked about possibly selling a put night WM because you have the deltas to sell Which would make you a little bit long into a market that's down about 20 points on the E-Mini S&Ps and then we kind of Rule out selling puts in X. Yeah, so today's whole thing was all about searching for a trade Could you have out of you Comes up next. Yeah, tonight next You
Video: 074 - Portfolio Review 02 26 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna be a good day today because in the morning Pete comes up to me and kind of like task me and he goes he goes, yes, so must be, must be a good day for you. Got a nice catch, me or sweater, you know. You must be feeling real good today is he is a little jealous. Partial to the to the swathe. Did you see him today? It was like her it's in a good herds of London in the tarot. Herds? Yes herds of London. You look very very dapper. So far you're accounting dapper too. So maybe it's a good thing maybe you should see Pete every day. Yeah, I try to I try to talk to Pete every day. Very good insights. Yes he does. Europe 272 bucks for the day. It's nice to down a 350 for the year. We just can't get over that hump. Kiss can't get over that even if you've done some nice things today. Let's look at your well let's bait away to position first if we could. Let me get that out of the way. I think you're going to be pretty much yeah there you are. You're short 300 delta's and you're short just about 300 Vega. You're a little leaning short which is going to kind of I think the audience should know. Some of your filled orders are probably going to take care of a little bit of that delta. Whether timing is perfect or not at this point it's defense. I don't really care. Yeah. One you did early this morning one you did later in the afternoon obviously it's going to be a better one. Let's go to your filled orders we'll start at the bottom there. SPY you rolled up a put spread not really using any more buying power maybe a couple hundred bucks six seven hundred bucks. We did that kind of early when the market was still up so we probably lost a couple cents doing that. Yeah you probably lost about a dime if I had a guess on the whole thing. But you have to do I mean like you have to take action when you lose a dime on that adjustment you make fifty or sixty dollars by dime I mean ten dollars. You make fifty or sixty dollars on the rest of the position being able to hold it. Yeah. Yeah it works. It works. The put that you rolled up two days ago you made you know fifty or sixty dollars on. I mean you don't want any of these adjustments you don't want to work. Yeah because it means that the rest of your part of the portfolio is going in the right way perfect. XOP you sold a call in April now let's take a look at your XOP position because that doesn't make sense to me on the surface because we wouldn't sell a naked call in XOP you don't have anything in April what you're thinking here. Because that thirty three putt is basically stock at this point. You're a hundred percent of trading at parity. Yeah and so I don't even know if we'll be able to roll that even. It couldn't roll it for anything any type of premium right now maybe five cents or four cents or something like that. Yeah. And anticipating in the next three weeks that you're probably going to take stock or in a better case scenario you're out of your March position in the next two weeks or so. XOP rallies goes above twenty seven and you're able to roll that March thirty three putt to an April thirty putt or twenty nine putt of that. I mean it's something that we're going to we're going to let play out for the time being on the surface. Well listen this one you did into strength meaning the stock is rallying you needed a rally in it. Yeah. I mean you basically just holding long delta next up. Okay great. Okay good good. Um GLD. We had a strangle that we put on not too far back. Forget exactly when we did it. I get it for you. Um. Uh. I won't get it for you. I think you did it for a dollar sixty one or something. No one that two oh one. It's like close up for a hundred bucks. You're right on two seventeen you sold the March one twenty four one eleven for two dollars and one and that was like kind of like a hedge towards a not a hedge but in addition. Yeah an iron condor on three dollars wide that was kind of in the money you sold the putt side a little bit closer than you did the call side for the strangle which gave you some sure gave you some long delta that you needed because you're picking up some short delta because the cost was in the money. Okay. And now you take it closer. Yeah. Yeah. Sold out of a or bought back a couple of the or the two short puts so I have a free up some buying power with that and just you know I don't know made some lunch money there. Um. Yeah. You know they have to know commissions on there so got it. Yeah. Got it. Take that off. Um. No commissions for the for the GLD puts that you bought. Yeah. Okay. And then um you know same thing in the cues that we did with with spy just rolling up. Um you know picking up some long delta I mean just being mechanical. Perfect. Perfect. Okay. So what now? Um. So let's take a look at volatility see what it's doing okay because it was contracting very nicely earlier this morning. It's kind of got a little bit bit let's go to photos slash VX. Now I don't know the answer to this and as a as a X market maker from the floor of the exchange you've got volatility up 50 cents right now. I don't know if they're running their models on Saturday or Sunday's date. And that's what's reflecting this volatility being up 50 cents right now or volatility's truly up 50 cents. Now when I look at your account and you're up a little over $300 today I don't think that volatility is actually up 50 cents. I think they're just running their algorithms to price the options on Saturday or Sunday's date already. Does that make sense? Well I mean. Because I like you of expiration today and like. No there's no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no expiration say so here. You know the weekends come in there's no trading for options. I'm a liquidity provider market maker or server or I'm writing the program that's going to do all of these models. The market opens I open the market with why as wide as markets I as I can to be competitive. As soon as I start buying or selling options I tweak my volatility. If people are selling me too much premium. and I lower my volatility. If people are buying my premium, then I raise my volatility until I get to that equilibrium. It's just like prices of a car at a car dealership. If you're not selling any cars, you lower the price. Everybody starts coming in, you're a dealership to buy them. You try to raise them a little bit more. So it's the same thing with volatility. Well, on the weekend, I know it's coming. So on Friday morning, when we open, I might be trading on theoretical prices of Friday afternoon, because I don't want to buy them on, I mean, Saturday and Sunday are going to come. That's an absolute. If the market stays stagnant, it doesn't do anything, then I move my prices pretty quickly to Saturday or Sunday. Okay. Makes sense? You're saying if we would have had a move in either direction that was significant, it wouldn't have been, it wouldn't. That's correct. That's correct. So there'll be times when you'll see volatility on Friday, stay the same, but you don't see your theta decay come in. That's because they haven't moved the numbers to Saturday or Sunday. Okay. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. You never know when it's going to happen. Yeah. Nobody knows. Mm-hmm. You would not be big enough. We don't really care. Yeah. But all we have to do is take care of that. So let's look it since volatility is up 50 cents, it does seem like it's coming in a little bit, but let's look at GLD. So let's go into GLD right here for just a second. Let's see what volatility is doing in GLD. Now, GLD's had a little bit of a run today. Strange. Well, stocks 117 in change. I'm talking about the future. You can stay right where you are. Ivy rank is 50. You still got an Ivy percentile of 96. What do you think about volatility here in GLD? Higher, lower, lately? I mean, it's still high. I think it's been lower. That's why my strangle came in so much was because there's been some volatility. That's correct. You put that strangle on the 11th. The 11th, he just, where they just marked it, well, there you go, right there, stop. I mean, you sold the peak of volatility. Yeah. So that's why it works so quickly. So you inclined to sell volatility again now when it's contracted so much, but you're right. It is still high. It's the same thing with volatility. I've just talked to you about like, are we, are we, is volatility really up 50 cents today? Are we trading on Sundays, number, and it's reflecting that? I mean, I'm inclined to sell it into it, but I would go into it. It's always my first answer. Yeah. I mean, I don't think, I don't know how you can argue with it. You're over that 50%. You know, if it goes to 75% so be it. Yeah. Time will go by. I mean, that's all, I mean, I'll play it from the short side anyway. So if it goes to 70, we're assuming that it's out. Okay, so what's the market been doing lately? The equity market, like the E-mini S-A-P's. I mean, it's been kind of stagnant, but it's been going up. It's been going up. What has GLD been doing? It's been going up with it. Okay, so if you trade this from the short side, you're actually kind of adding a little bit. Okay, so you keep that in mind. Yeah. Okay, let's go into April. And into the option chain, please. All right, so you just have an in the money call spread that you're short in GLD right now in March. Okay, where do you go? I mean, I would go back to a strangle that, I mean, that seems, there is, there is. Okay, you took off a strangle. Yeah. You can sell another strangle that you're using any additional buying power than what you came in with today. Okay. Yeah. What are you gonna do? Where do you go? I mean, I would play it to the short side, but I was looking at the 107, 123. It's slightly short, but it was in April. Yeah, you're in April. You can't do 107, 123. That was on what I was looking at. Yeah, 120. Well, I guess the 107 trading for that small, yeah, for two bucks. That's what I was looking at. But that put doesn't make sense to sell it at 30 something cents. So I have a feeling you were probably on Doe and you were looking to get out to a standard deviation. And then you see something as $2. And it looks good and it is good. And the numbers are what they are. But then you see yourself in practical application, the dollar a day. It's not. Yeah, but selling that per for 40 cents can't do it. Yeah, it doesn't make sense. All right, so being the elder statesman of the group here, can we go more neutral? Yeah. Just because your overall position can warrant a neutral trade as opposed to a directional trade. Yeah. But let's move it in a little bit tighter. OK. So let's go to around the 25 or 30 probability of being in the money in each one. Let's go to the 112th put. And let's go to the same thing here. Let's go to the 123 call. That was the one that you just said a moment ago, right? Yeah. OK. Completely basically dealt a neutral on the over, on the overall trade. $2.85 is the mid price. I think 112. Go back to GLD for a moment. I don't know if gold even got below 112 on its, yes, where it kind of took off from. OK. And I never got above 123. All right. OK. Go back to the trade page. I apologize. OK. Now I picked the 123 for two reason. Same probability of being out of the money as the put. You want to skew it a little bit shorter. Do you want to stay with these strikes? Do you want to move it? The call, the strike or two in? Historically gold is supposed to be in the history. Is it supposed to be in the history? My history is 49 freaking days. My history is 49 days. If you could double what's going to happen in 49 days, then say something. But isn't it supposed to be inversely correlated to the market moves? Is like what the, I mean, like, like, like the quality of gold is like a, like, a figure. Usually don't go together. OK. Well, we just look, we just, I know, but they have in recently. OK. So what does that mean? No. So, so, like, I mean, like, I know, but I like, but I love that discussion. What I'm actually thinking is if I, if I'm going to play it short, that's me, I mean, my portfolio is short as it is. So if the market keeps going up before, like, the last couple of weeks, this gold would have, we've actually done a lot of studies on this. It's pretty much random. I know that that's the conventional wisdom that people, it's the same thing with bonds. Bonds should go lower when the market goes higher. Well, it hasn't. Yeah. I mean, so I mean, you can't, it's really pretty much random. OK. I hear it. So why don't we stay neutral? I agree. All right, let's go in at 285. It's been going back to 4285, 286. I don't think you're going to do much better than that. We'll see what happens. And using that same 1800 bucks that you're using a moment ago, before you, before you closed your watch trade. All right, let's say a quick break and go over everything that we discussed here today. And really, what did we do? We kind of did a little bit of portfolio review when over the trades that you've done from this morning and also what we could add today. And really, we just rinse and repeat. You had nice success in GLD. You took it off. You came on. We don't have the same implied volatility that we had. So I'm going to expect that trade not to contract as fast as the last one that you had. OK. All right? Yeah. Good job, everybody. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 075 - Getting Long Vxx 03 01 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Niki went back when I start Matt vs. Bat how are you son? Not too good. You happy? No, no. We had to hold all those shorts. Oh, don't give me that. Why'd you make me do that? Huh? Oh, you and Sais, let me see your account. You and Tom Sais were out there like, oh, don't be such a Johnny. Go for the gold. Well, yeah, healthy short delta. You got slapped it happens. Listen, you didn't get slapped. Anytime you're going to have a two to three percent move, I mean, you've got Nasdaq up almost three percent. You've got the Nasdaq, Emanuee S and P, you know, up two and a half percent. I mean, it's going to happen. Yeah. It's how you behave. Now, do you have time on your side? Yes. You do. 18 days or so left expiration, expiration is the third Friday of every month. You're just going to get the first Friday and the equities. So you still have time. So what's the go-to thing to do? Probably either roll or puts up to get pick up some long delta or just roll, start rolling our positions to the next month. Okay. I don't know if we want to do that in such a big move. But it's, I mean, it's hindsight. There's no wrong answer. You know, listen, even sitting on your hands, as long as you like the 500 delta, short delta as you have, that's one Emanuee S and P, 500 SPY delta, which we beta way to, equals one Emanue S and P, that's a hundred thousand dollars in noional value. That's a big your positions are. That's a big position. For little Johnny, one lot, two lot, three lot trader, right? I mean, you've never done more than two contracts at one time. You may have accumulated a position of maybe five contracts, I think, an SPY. But you've never done more than one at a time. Yeah. It comes, listen. Yeah. If you had the direction, right, you'd be winning the other way. Yeah. You went positive yesterday, you'll become positive again. Mm-hmm. Okay. So, same mechanical. Yeah. Let's get on with the, let's get on with the show, SPY. I don't know, go to the trade page. Sorry. Just be so much easier and you're going to have to open up a bunch of strikes. Okay. So, the easiest thing to do is to roll up the untested side. Like, like when the market slows down tomorrow, the next day or the day after, you can start thinking about, you know, the next week, you can start thinking about taking them from March to April. Markets will be a little bit tighter, markets will be a little bit slower, you'll be able to do price movement. You've got EMEA, S&P's moving, well, methodically up five points at a time here, without any two-sided action. It's hard to kind of decide what you want to do and what fill you want to do. Yeah. You kind of like emotional about it. The easiest thing to do to reduce deltas to move up those untested side. Yeah. Okay. I think you have a short put that's much further down. Let's take a look at it. It's like around 180 or something. There you go. Okay. So, we're going to buy that 180 put back, right? Yeah, that one's nothing. It's got a dollar, a day left on it. Okay. And we're going to buy back the 187 put. Yeah. Hold down the control key and you can just do it all as one trade. And then since we're not going to add any more contracts, I imagine. You could if you wanted to. Okay. We're going to sell two of what? Go to the 30. Okay. So, I get you a little bit inverted here on a $4.40 move on SPY right now. Yeah. Well, I mean, a little bit inverted because we have that one call that's... Okay. So, do you want to go to the name one? I would go to the 193. I mean, that's... Anyway, between 193 and 191, it all works. Yeah. Do you want to split the difference? Go 192? Sure. Okay. Do two at 192. But you're right. There's no wrong answer. Okay. $1.85 mid price. Let's go into $1.85. We're not going to worry about buying power reduction right now. It's going to cost you about $1,500. Again, tomorrow the next day you'll figure out what puts or what calls you have to buy to kind of tighten up your buying power to free up that buyer. This is why you did those other things in days past. Okay. Let's go out of SPY and go to the queues. Because they're all basically the same thing, right? Yeah. Although the E-mini S-F-P's are up to and a third percent. This is up three and an eighth percent pretty much. Wow. Okay. So what are we going to do in the queues? Same process it looks like, right? Yeah. The 93s. Those are worthless, right? I mean, 8 cents. You got to buy them back. Even the 99s too. Sure. I mean, I'm not selling something with it as a 12 percent probably success. Yeah. You know, for the 30 cents with 17 days to go, what puts you going to sell? I mean, here going to the 102 really doesn't net you much. You kind of got to go inverted here. Well, the probabilities are what they are, meaning that the volatility is what it is. It's all the same. You know, you got a 25 percent probably being the money, which is basically what you did in SPY. You just have a lower volatility in here. That's all. Small price product. I mean, $105 versus $195. Yeah. I mean, I guess you go to the 102s. I think so too. I mean, with three Fridays to go to expiration, which really leaves you about 1 and a half Fridays, because we're not going to take this all the way to expiration. Yeah. Typically, you don't want to get out sometime, not this Friday, but before next Friday. Yeah. Okay. All right. One and I credit. Sound good? Cool. Well, this is what it is. Can't do that. Yeah. Okay. And you move these by a penny or something like that to get filled. Okay. I WM. Okay. You just got filled on that one one and I. Yeah. Boy, you probably sold that in a hole. You know, we got to shave pennies and into this. You do. You do. You do, but you also need the belt, right? Yeah. One penny is not going to make that much of a difference. Yeah. At this point, on entry, you can control. Now you're playing defense. Yeah. Okay. What are you going to do at night WM? Um, are the 98s our lowest? I feel like we have lower. Go take a look. Nope. You'll own the 90 puts because this is what you did yesterday. You rolled up this. Okay. So go ahead. Mm-hmm. Okay. So for sure the 98s, I don't know. Okay. Two times, right? Yeah. Okay. Then what are you going to do? And then roll them up to the 100. I mean, where we could we could buy back those hundreds and go to the 101s. We write that right there. We have on the call side, we basically have a 101 straddle. Fantastic that you figured that out. No, I'm serious. No, I'm serious. That one by two by one call, short the 100, short the 101, short the 102, synthesizes out to short the 101, short the 101 call spread. You want to make it into a, you're saying let me make it into a straddle. Yeah. As opposed to going inverted. 100% agree? Cool. Let's do it. Okay. So two of the 101s. And we're going to, oh, we're going to buy back the, you know, buy back the 98 right now. You can, you can, you'll have to do that as a step. You can do. No, you can do the, you can do it for. Okay. So you can buy back the hundreds. Sure. Sure, sure. You can hold down the control key. You're only moving it one strike though. Okay. So it's not going to be, right? I mean, I'm not going to, for ten cents. Yeah. And my, handle this from getting filled for ten cents. What doesn't make sense? Okay. So let's do something different. All right. Delete that. And let's just buy, let's just sell the 101 98 puts spread two times. Are we good? 36 cents? Wonderful. Sure. You mean, yes, please run their highs. My little sub puts spreads. Yeah. Fantastic. Awesome. Okay. Um, let's go back to the monitor tab for a quick second. I don't think you got completely, you only got filled on one. I think you have filled on the cues. You didn't get filled on the other one. Okay. And our diamond position, we only have like a one lot. I think it's an iron condor. You are correct, but it's more like a strangle, right? Yeah. Mm-hmm. You could roll up there too. Yeah. Let me give you another one. Close it up for a minute. Yeah. And you can do that if you want to in a moment. All right. So catapillars giving you 15 short deltas. All right. Yeah. So we can move that up too, right? Yeah. Okay. We roll up the puts. Okay. Open up the march. Okay. So you're going to buy back that this is part of a str- No, just so you know, this strangle is a profit. Yeah. It's profitable right now. So you can take it off. Yeah. I'd rather keep the perfect. Perfect. Perfect. So buy the 60-putt, which one you're going to sell? I mean, you're short-delted to the $30 call, right? So we like to- Let's not lose focus. Let's not lose focus of what we do. We like to reduce delt at least by half here. Because of your over. So I'm looking for the option to probably as a 20 probably being out of the money because you're short to call with a 40, 39 and change. I'm just rounding. No, if this was your only position, it's a no-brainer for me. I'm rolling the 60, 65. Yeah. No-brainer. Okay. So if you're short position other places, you could become, enough, it's more aggressive or taking more premium or reducing by even more delta and taking it from the 60 to say like the 67. It's entirely up to you. It was a 66, it's entirely up to you. It was a 65. There's no wrong answer. Okay. Well, let's take it to the 65. I mean, the perfect. Sell the 65, 60 puts bread. Perfect. Put it at $0.39 and we'll see what happens. Okay. Now you can adjust all of those. Now you want it to add another trade in volatility. Yeah. Foreslash VX is in two percent, excuse me, two points today, almost 9.5%. So let's go into VXX. So like, you know, you're reducing on one side at crappy prices. And now you're looking to do something that you think is an advantageous price. Yeah. From like, you know, de-gives play defense. Now you play a little bit of offense. Let's go into VXX. Open up April. I'm sorry. Okay. So what puts do you look to sell? I would go to the 21's just to get that dollar. Okay. So hit sell one and just hit confirm and send one time. Let's let loose side of what we try to do here, right? Mm-hmm. $700 in buying power. Now let's close that up. Okay. You're selling the 21's. If you went to go buy, say, the 16 put, it'd be $500 instead of, well, it'll be a little bit less than that, be $400. So do the spread. That's fine. Hit confirm and send one time. So now using $400 instead of $700, want to do the spread of the naked. That makes a lot more sense to do in that. Sure. Okay. Let's, yeah, hit confirm and send. You can move it one penny when you get a chance. Cool. Sound good? Yeah. Okay. So what did we look to do? Let's take a look at your monotone for a quick second. I think you used about $2,500 more in buying power. You changed your overall, you haven't gotten filled on those. So let's look at those working orders for a minute. Let's go down to penny on that one. Go down to $84. I know you probably got it on another page. I just want to get it filled. I mean, I hope you get filled in $85 before you can cancel it. But if you don't, I just want to show you. Your buying power is going to stay the same way I want to show you how your delta's changed. Okay. We got it. So let's take a look at your overall position and see if it's changed by much. So you went from around $500 to about $440 if you get filled in a catapel. You'll probably pick up another $20 or $25 delta. And if you get filled in IWM, you'll probably pick up another $10 delta. It's probably knocked off about $100 of the $500 delta's a chat. Significantly less than we normally would like to be. I don't know if the market's going to sell back off or not. But you just keep staying mechanical. All right. Yeah. All right. Cool. Let's take a quick break and go everything that we talked about here today. So really this was all about rolling. There's two choices. You're going to either roll from this month up, roll up the untested side, or roll this month into next month to reduce delta. We chose with 2 1,5 weeks to go to roll this month, roll the untested side. Look for a new trade in VXX because volatile is down almost 10%. I think that was it. Look to roll in tape rolls sometime next week. That's correct. Or a market accommodates you. Then you'll have close trades. Who comes up next? That's Tim Nye. Next. Peace.
Video: 076 - Rolling To A New Position 03 03 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Do you remember when we started Bavaria's Bad How You Son? Just peachy. You happy? No, not too much. How come? Because we're hitting the high of the day. You know, a lot of times that happens with your account right now. I know. Let's take a look at it. Do you want to keep when I open when I close? You're like, oh. So you're at the lows the day for your account. Now, $400 bucks, $1600, it's short of about 500 SPY. Look almost, probably 600 with this move up now. Yeah, probably 600 SPY, 594. Yeah. What do you do? I've got to start rolling our positions. I mean, cry. Cry is one thing you could do. Be uncle's doors. Yes. Yes, that's right. The tea is always good. Crying close doors when nobody's looking. Yes. Never let them know when they've got you. Yes. But now you got to keep, I mean, you got to stay in the game. Right. You know, I'm not out of head. I mean, it's been tough, but you've been here before down, right? Yeah, I've been here. Right? Okay. And what was it? It was only what? Monday or something like that when you were positive for the year. Yeah. Markets move. Yeah. Things happen. It's moved. They complete obsolete. I needed it to go. So I can mean it clearly on Monday or Tuesday when you're positive. Well, hindsight's 2020. Exactly. Exactly my point. But you stay mechanical and you keep it up. So one of the things that we're going to do is roll. And I think we can roll. You've got 26 short deltas and caterpillar. You've got XLE is giving you a 38 short deltas. Diamonds are giving you 37 short deltas. We can roll all of those and probably reduce your delta in those products by about half. And I think if we do those, they're much smaller positions that will help you next week when we look to roll, especially if we don't get any type of movement that you need lower in IWM and SPY. OK. OK. Let's just go in alphabetical order. Let's just go to caterpillar for the first one. I think it'll be the easiest one to do. Now in caterpillar, you had a winning trade in here and you chose. Yeah. We didn't reach out target. Really. We didn't win. Yeah. If we'd have gotten to 50%, we would have looked at close it. We were so close a couple of times. Yeah. I mean, I think it's moved $5 in the last two days. The stock. Yeah, the stock. Yes. I mean, so. We're only supposed to move how much in the next 15 days? $3.56. So how did it move $5 in the last two days? If over 17 days, let's just say it's supposed to move $4. Because that's how the markets work. Yeah, it happens, right? Yeah. You're supposed to get these outlier moves one or two times on every product that you do within the year. Sometimes it comes four times in a year. Yeah. And then hopefully the next year doesn't come at all. We're only once in the average is out over time. Mm-hmm. OK, so what do we do now? So we got to roll this into April. OK, so let's stay right here for a moment. Let's buy back the 65 put. Let's buy back the 70 call. And what do you do now for April? I mean, I was going to see if we can move that call up a little bit. We move the put up to maybe the 67 and a half and the call up to the 72 and a half. I mean, I know that's kind of like chasing it. We can still do that for credit, I would think. OK, so let me give you the classic way. OK, and then you can do what you want. Because when you roll it is a new trade. I mean, you may look at it as a rolling trade and extending duration. I may look at it as a rolling trade and extending duration, which I do. But according to your taxes and your P&L, it's a completely new trade. Yeah. So you can do what you want. Now, I'll tell you what I would do. I would stick with that same 70 call. So let's sell the 70 call in April. I mean, it stocks up $2 in change today. I don't know where it's going to go. But we stay with the same 70 call. OK. Now that 65 put, you could make a great argument to stay right there in the 65 put. You're collecting about an extra $1.50, $1.40 in credit. But you're picking up 43 days in time that you have to wait to get it. But it certainly gives you time to be right. I almost feel like for me, rolling is going to reduce your delta by about half or so. I don't know. I think you stay. The only other thing you could do is you said roll up the call. Yeah, roll up the call in the put further. Well, I wouldn't roll up the call further at all. That's something I would not do, especially at this point. But you could make an argument to roll up to put either as high as 70, up to 67. I think you're kind of split in hairs. I probably stay with the delta of 65. We can always roll up as the time goes by. We can roll that put up if we continue to get free. Absolutely. This is just a start. Yeah. All right. Let's go into $1.51. So it seems to be moving around a little bit. 50.51, 253. We'll see what happens. OK. That's caterpillar. I said stay in alphabetical order. OK, let's do that. Let's go in diamonds. Now this is all defense. This stinks. Yeah. OK. In the diamonds, I think you're down to $50 for the year in the diamond. So this has been a very small, because you haven't added to it. Yeah. OK, you're short to 64 puts. And you're short the 66 calls. We actually rolled those up the yesterday. Sure. Sure. Of course. I think you just got to fill the caterpillar too. OK. So what do you do? So again, we got to roll the stape roll. OK, so you're 100% correct. I think we should roll to April. Yeah. What are other things that you could do? Because there's no wrong answer. Like if you want to stay in March, what could you do? I mean, I guess you could roll the put up to the 66 or even go inverted on this. That's correct. You can go all the way up to, just to give you guidelines, all the way up to $169 in my opinion. You could make the argument that you can go to $170 and say, hey, I'm going to throw on the towel on this trade. I want it to stay in between $166 and $170 over the next two weeks. And I've got, well, you got a dollar in premium in the 66 call. And you've got $2 in premium in the $69 put. You've got $3 total. That spread could go to $3. It's trading for $3. You certainly could do that, too, right? Yeah. OK. I agree with you, though. I think we should probably roll to April. And what I wanted to do in today's segment was kind of show you how we're going to roll in SPY and IWM in the coming week or something next week. Yeah. OK. So let's buy back the 64 put and let's buy back the $166 call. And what do you do in April? I mean, we could go to those same strikes. OK. Or we could. I mean, you could also go to like a 66 straddle or OK. I mean, there's no. What I want to show here is what I want to show here is there's no wrong answer. So you've got to take a little bit of your own market opinion. Now, what do you have? You've got these are two very small positions. Yeah. Catapult is one contract. Damon's one contract. You've got five or more contracts in SPY. I think you have four or five contracts in IWM. Yeah. Being a little bit more aggressive with delta, meaning, you know, rolling it up further to make a straddle isn't going to hurt you if we sell off. Yeah. Because your other position is much bigger than that. If this was your only position, I might look to stay in the same strikes. Yeah. OK. What are you going to do? It's entirely up to you. So then let's roll it up and get more aggressive with it. OK. So you're short to 164, 166 call. You're short to 164 put. If you roll up to the 166 call, if you stay there, it's the equivalent of what? You're synthetically short what? If you sell the call there, you're short to 166 put, right? Yeah. Do you understand that? So if you're. Because I mean, now you take a look. Here, let's sell the 166 call in the 164 put, which is exactly what you have on already from rolling it all up. Yeah. What's the difference of going to the 166 straddle? Another $2? Yeah, another $2. And some premium. Well, let's take a look at what it is. Let's sell that put it the 166. OK. What's the probability of the 166 put being in the mic? Go down a little further? It's going around 39% right? 39% yeah. OK, you want to do that? I'm totally fine with it. What do you want to stay with the 164? We've rolled up this put so much in March that you're basically almost at the money right now. Here, let me play devil's advocate for you. You can get rid of the March 166, 164 and sell a strangle. Yeah. So you can get rid of the strangle in April if you want to. It's entirely up to you. What I'm trying to prove here, the point that I've proved, is as long as you're collecting some sort of credit, there's no wrong answer. As long as you're reducing your delta, then there's no wrong answer. Let's stay with the 166. I think that's what you wanted to do. OK. OK. All right. Let's go into 309. I don't know if you're going to get filled there. It doesn't look like you will, but you never know. Markets are a little bit wide in April and March. You can always change it later on. All right. We've got time for one more. Let's look at XLE. Yeah, another one that was a winner at one point. Do you feel good about doing this right now? No. No, of course not. OK. Do you feel bad? No. I mean, it's just, it's got to be done. I mean, like, I feel proactive. Like, like, we could sit here and do nothing. Yeah. Like, that makes me feel worse. I mean, it never feels good to roll from losing position. If it does feel good, I think there's something wrong with you. But boy, right now. Yeah. So I mean, but you got to jump on it. And we got to do it. OK. XLE, here's another one where we had a profit in that we didn't take. Yeah. Yeah, kind of reached our target. Yeah. Today, it's kind of imploding on us a little bit. It's stock ups night up 90 cents. Mm-hmm. OK. What do you want to do? I mean, this is another one that we can, we have an existing strangle in April that's at like the 50, 4 and the 60, I think. 60 in April, 61, 60 and 51. And 51. So I mean, we're, OK. So let's go. Let's stay at these same strikes. We can move the call up to the 60. And so this one, I think, is actually going to be a little bit easier for you than the last ones. Yeah. The last ones was really just like you have to put your own market opinion on. This one, I think, your position is actually going to dictate what you do. Let's take a look at it. So let's buy the 59, 57 put by the 59 call. And let's go into April. In April, you're already kind of short, right? You're short of call. It's much closer to money. You're short of put that's well out of the money. OK. So in here, that 57 put, like if you want to make this the 59 straddle. Yeah. That would make sense. I think it's right. I mean, it's, you understand what I'm saying? Because that 51 put you have there that isn't helping you at all. Opening a new existing position in the diamonds is kind of like, you know, you got to pick the poison that you want. Yeah. So you want to have here. It's almost telling you listen, you're already short. You're short. The money call. It's now in the money. I think you know, the 59 is the way to go. OK. OK. OK. Good. All right. Let's sell a 59 call and 59 put. 215 credit. Margin's a little wide near to. Let's go into 215. We'll see what happens. You can always change it when we're done. Yeah. No extra buying power. Or if you do it, use any buying power. Let's go back to the trade page for just a quick second and then we'll be done. In caterpillar, I don't know if you remember your Delta was around 38 or something, I think with spy beta weighted, it's now down to 18. So I said you'd reduce it by about half. You reduce it a little bit more than half. And we haven't gotten filled yet in the diamond one. You'll get filled on that one too. You'll bring your spy beta weighted Delta's down to about 500 of you filled on all these things. Cool. All right. All right. So let's take a quick second to go over everything that we did today. It was really all about rolling, rolling for duration and then not being afraid to change the strikes to fit any existing position you have and to realize that you're rolling, but this is a new trade. Yeah. Like that's over with. This is new, but the game still continues. Definitely. So this is going to be the third inning of a 12 inning game, 12 years, 12 months. Okay. Yeah, right? Yeah. I'm trying to use the quickest task. Who's up next? God to him. Nine. Peace.
Video: 077 - Looking For Buying Power 03 07 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back bad versus bad how are you son? Okay, are you not really look at your account real quick? Down about two hundred bucks twenty four hundred bucks for the year twenty four and a half for the year stinks Stinks can't catch a break I can't catapillar IBM on top of Some oil XOP's bothering you now XLEME's bothering you What are we gonna do we got a search for buying power? Yeah, okay? Let's go to the analyze tab for a quick second here I want to show you what you did earlier today. You're short about five hundred spy beta-weighted Delta's It's been about what you've been over the last Three four trading days and we've been rolling up every time trying to keep that Delta as little as possible Earlier today you bought the I know it's a sell sold down there the one ninety one two one because that means This would be the position that you came in with today We're simulating it and you'll notice that your buying power effect is around ten thousand seven hundred dollars ten thousand six hundred ninety two dollars We bought this one oh one sorry one ninety one two oh one call spread You can just X out of it if you want and it's gonna change the buying power by about a thousand a little over a thousand dollars 13 hundred bucks to free up some buying power we have to free up a little bit more buying power Because you're starting to you're starting to lose it in your account. You rolled up some puts spreads earlier this morning too on top of that And you're just getting you're just getting to position limits. Yeah, right? Okay, so let's How should we do this? I think it just be easier if we go to the trade page and I think if we explain and everybody sees It's nine thousand three hundred dollars. We'll see what we end up with when we're done Okay, and we'll do these at marketable orders meaning you know market limit orders where we'll get filled on on these things all right So the first thing you have to do if you look down step for a quick second These puts you go a little bit further down. I think you're long. I'm sorry the direction You're long put all the way in like the one sixty handles somewhere or something. I might even be more than Well, it's not doing anything for it. Well, it's not it's not there. There it is It's not being recognized even by the brokerage firm. So you're getting charged full margin on that trade Okay, okay, so we have to roll up some of these puts now my suggestion for you would be probably to buy a two lot of something Let's go a little bit further like stop right there like maybe one eighty six or something I think you buy a two lot of one eighty six puts That'll free up a significant amount of money. Let's buy two at twenty one dollars and see what happens We'll go back to the analyze table. Just look at your P and L or You can go right to the monitor tab if you want to either either way. I don't know what that is Okay, let's go to the monitor tab Either one that that one's fine to get rid of you already did okay, so you went from $90 three hundred dollars to six thousand dollars just by buying $40 worth of premium So now you've freed up some buying power now you have liberty to do other things. Yeah, let's go back to the trade page And then we want to come back to the analyzed tab anymore because now that you've freed up some of that buying power. Okay, so What do you do like what's the logical thing for you? I know we can roll from March to the back to the back month of April Which will start to be the front month pretty soon. We'll probably do that at the end of the week This week, what could you do right now? We can roll up the the puts which ones the one ninety two's two No, the 30 delta the one ninety six. Yes about 195 maybe I'm staying away from the half strikes, but I agree with you the half strike. Let's put the difference Let's go to one ninety five cool. Let's sell two times the one ninety five one ninety two put spread Make sense 57 cents is fine. Let's just go in a 57 cents and see what happens if you don't get filled on that You know, you'll move it now. Let's go see what you're buying power You can go to the monitor tab if you want just to make it a little bit easier Okay, so you went from around ten thousand dollars and changed ten thousand six hundred to around just under eight thousand dollars And now you've got you've reduced a little bit of your delta you've used less buying power You've increased your theta decay You know, it's the best you can you know, it's the best you can do of massaging a position without any adding any more Contracts to the trade. Okay, let's close it up because you got some other issues to take care of and you went from short 500 to short, you know, 478 delta's not not that much more Right? You sound like sasnoff six dollars and 50 cents on the e-mini s and p That's a big move compared to what I've been looking at all days And you can tell by your panel. I mean, you know, you get a ten point move in the e-mini s piece You'll probably have a nice a nice day It might be getting a little bit late for your account this month to make up that two thousand dollars But you know at this point I'm looking to cut everything back and forth. Okay, so what do we what do we do now? Okay, we got to go to either caterpillar the IBM Okay, so let's go to the caterpillar trade page. Maybe we'll go to IBM also. Yeah Now in a perfect world we'd be rolling up these puts with caterpillar going lower caterpillars going higher. Yeah, so what do you do? um I mean at this point I didn't want to go fully inverted and go to like the 75 Put but I think we could roll that all the way up to the 72 and a half I didn't pull him premium, but I mean we do have a lot of time left You do let's go to the 70 I agree with you. There's no wrong answer What will happen you've actually wanted to roll up to the 70 put two or three days ago Which would have been better and I kind of stopped you so in hindsight, you know, you were you were right I guess if we got like a little pullback in it then we could think to go inverted at that point Looks it closes it if you close it if I get like a scratch or something like that there you go All right, let's put it in 76 cents you can adjust it later on when we're off the show if you don't get filled Okay, you said IBM you can stay right here. Let's go to IBM You're in damage control right now, right? I mean, this is what you're doing. Okay now. So in IBM you got a little bit of a different situation Your call strike hasn't been breached yet Uh Stocks just under 140 Okay, yeah, what do you want to um, I mean that they have 120 Put just isn't there's not a lot of premium left it's correct the time so Um, this one. I don't think we have to get it as aggressive with then we could go to the 130. I agree with you I agree with you now if you had a neutral position meaning on your overall portfolio You know had the right Greeks meaning like maybe you was short, you know 200 Spy weighted deltas and you were short like maybe you know 400 Vega I would say maybe you do nothing and you keep the delta risk here And maybe get a little bit of pullback. I mean I B.M. Zana. I don't know what's it up 10% in the last 10 days or something like that I mean, you know, maybe you sit with it, but you have short-telt everywhere Yeah, I mean, but even even this long delta adjustment is is very minimal it is it is I mean, but IBM was 125 not too long ago Yeah, okay, perfect uh 74 cents. Let's go in a mid price and you can change that later on I got two more for you if we could all right Let's go to xle Okay, in xle you're ready in April and we did another strangle in here This is also another place where you might be able to pick up some buying power I want you to do that on your own figure out maybe there's two contracts of calls and puts you can buy here to reduce your buying power But what what do you what do you see here that you could do that 51 put it's just that's not doing anything for me So what do you go up to At this point we could probably go if I wanted to make it like Uh, an eat an equal straddle I could go to the 58 mm-hmm Where you could or you could go all the way up to the 59 but I think at the 58 we would The whole position would be a synthetic 59 straddle because we have Cauls and puts equal distance from the 59 strike So which has about a 60% chance of a touch of the next 39 And that jives with what you know the rest of the position is so sounds good to me cool I was actually gonna say 57 58 same exact thing So okay, it's going at 81 cents and you can cancel replace it and do that Do that later on okay, so we have we have one more Twitter You're down about 320 dollars on this trade you were down around 700 on its on its lows of this trade You're short the 19 call and you're Basically long stock, but you're long stock in the form of a short put in April right yeah Well, we got assigned on it. So we have oh, so you are long stock. Oh, I forgot I'm long to stock yet I think 28. Yeah, it doesn't well you're not on the stock at 28 if you're down That's where your put might have been you sold a lot of premium if you're down 300 on this trade you're basically long the stock at around 22 dollars That's that's what comes out. Yeah, now you've got about Call it 70 more cents To to make in this in a perfect world. Let's just say the stock closes at 20 You would have to sell that 19 call at a dollar you lose another four or five cents on it You would pick up the the 19 20 where the stock is to 20 dollars you pick up another 80 cents there So you have about 75 cents more to make so you're down 320 dollars You could be down as little as 250 there's two things to do here We either have to if you want to stay long twitter you have to look to doesn't have to be today could be on a rally which would be Preferable you would buy that 19 call in March and let's see what you would sell in April just for argument six We'll call you selling April Probably the 20 call if the price where it is if the pricing was around what it is right now You'd be able to do that role for a small credit You would buy back your 19 call sell your 20 call and do it for a small credit That would keep the bullish assumption alive in twitter and that would also still use the 13 hundred dollars in buying power that you're using now yeah Now as long as you're bullish on twitter I have no problem with that if you look into say hey You know I was down 700 dollars. I'm down $330. I know I'm gonna get out of twitter then you just close the trade okay It's six of one Half dozen of another what's the ivy rank in twitter? Let's take a look at that because that might help you a little bit Let's go to a chart of twitter Okay, so it's 40 it's on the lower end of its of its most recent range ivy rank yeah 69 percent I mean you have no earnings issue coming up You it's one of your few bullish plays yeah I mean I might look to roll it to the 20 like I don't know if you do it today Maybe on a rally if like you have a short portfolio. So let's just say tomorrow the next day the markets gone a little bit higher I might look to close that 19 call and sell the 20 call or the 21 call depending on where the stock is Okay, first out of the money call okay, yeah, you can do for a credit. Yes. Sound good. Yeah, okay Let's go back to the monitor tab and let's just see what your what your buying power looks like on there Let's close it all up actually down about 280 bucks you mark most of rally a little bit Yes, you mean s of p's down two dollars and and 25 cents Okay, you freed up a little bit of buying power you went from 10,000 and SPY to just under 8,000 You've got some other issues that we have to take care of right in q well q's you rolled right Yes, look at let's look at your field orders So we've been talking about in q's we've been talking about rolling from March to April and you did that today Okay, so what's your homework assignment? We got about two minutes left XLE You got to try take one of those units off or or just buy the by the wings I would look to buy the wings using about $3,300 in buying power in there to $50 excuse me $60 stock You'll probably be able to to reduce that by about Almost like a quarter maybe a little bit more like the $10 out yeah, yeah, options on each side Yeah, you might have obviously might have to go a little bit closer on the on the a little bit Further out on the put side than the call side, but you'll have to see okay Let's take a quick quick second here just to go over everything that we tried to do here today And really what it came down to is we were looking for buying power and looking for buying power Just means that we were looking for money in your account That we could find by buying something we figured out that we could buy a two lot of puts for a round $20 a piece $40 total and that freed up about three thousand dollars almost four thousand dollars in buying power So a good use in my in my mind of your buying power by buying those two puts back and then we sold some puts press to get a little bit of long delta It's got a couple like sideways a little bit down move days you need a little bit of a down move I think I need one too who comes up next yeah till next peace
Video: 078 - Rolling Dynamic Iron Condors 03 15 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I think you're back. Where do I start? Bat vs. Bat. How are you son? Good. Another decent day for us. One brick at a time. Keep going moving forward, right? It's a name of the game. Let's take a look at your account. You're up about $250 for the day you were up about $350 when the market was kind of making its lows. Yeah, down 10 or 11. The E-mini S&P is only down around seven right now. Yeah, that's correct. Let's take a look at your account. In NASDAQ down four, survey said take a look at your account. Beautiful. $245 still down about $1300. But you're working your way back maybe about $6, $7, maybe even $800 over the last couple of days, which is nice. It had a little bit of market cooperation. Your beta weight adult is just short about $200, $200, Vega. It's a positive theta decay of $79. Your Greeks look good. You're a little bit short delta, but I don't really consider 100 short delta is that significant. You got a lot of money sitting on the sidelines. You closed the trade. Let's look at your filled orders for a moment. Yeah, we closed that. Just put that on a few days ago, right? Yeah. Do you want me to take a couple days? Just a few days for it. Before days ago, five days ago. Yeah. Okay. I think we sold it for $80 something. No, we sold it for like $1.07. Oh, did we? Oh, nice. Nice. 43 cents there. You're right. So for $1.07. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So you made yourself a $64 cents on it over a couple days. Over a couple days. Did one the ninth today is 15th. Nice. Okay. Okay. Best case scenario. I mean, yeah, well, best case scenario is 30 some more days from now. The stock is at $124 and you make $2 or $3.07 or something like that. I mean, not really what you were playing for. Yeah. Short term, bowel contraction. Let's look at a chart of GLD for a quick second. Because that can segue me into my next position, which is what I want to take a look at. Let's see GLD. So okay. So you got a volatility down to 38% from around 45 when you first put on the trade. Okay. Let's take a look at, you can stay right where you are and let's look at IWM if we could. Okay. So IWM has an implied volatility rank of 26% not the best, but I want to put, I want you to take a look at a date in particular. I want you to take a look at 223 if we could. And James, you can get ready with the account statement tab in IWM if we could not account statement tab. Yeah. I'm sorry, the account statement tab in IWM. All right. So on 223 right there where James just had that cursor where that red little bars, you put on a jade lizard. Now jade lizard is a short call spread with a short put. Let's take a look at the price that you put that on. Let's go to the account statement tab if we could and put in IWM. Might take you, oh you guys just change it to, that's fine. This is going to take a minute. It came up quick and I thought, okay, 226 is what I think, 223, I'm sorry, is over low right there. So you did it for a dollar 20 credit. Yep. 710 call spread, 93 put and we bought the 87 put kind of as a way of using less buying power protection. I mean, you know, using less buying power, not really for protection. Okay. Okay. This could have been a dynamic iron condor at that point. It certainly could have where it was selling the strike, the 20 delta strike. On the 23rd, let's go back to, it's in the 23rd IWM. But I was around $103. You're right. Yeah, it could have been dynamic. Okay. Either way, either way, right. What I'm trying to make here is IWM is $106. Let's see what that spread is trading for. If you can put it up right there, if we could create duplicate orders, find create opposite orders, find. All right. So it's trading for around a dollar 25, dollar 26, mid price, dollar 27. So you're out $7 on the trade from 223, February 23. Okay. Okay. So you've been looking for a little bit of long delta. We've got, rustle down, well, a lot more than the rest of the market. Rustle on a percentage basis is down a little over 1.5% just to give you some ideas. Nasdax down, less than 1.10% of 1%. Emini S&P's down 7 is down about a third of a percent. And the Dow is actually up $3. So you've got a little divergence of the market. If I was looking to put on, if I have short delta, you have short delta IWM. If I was looking to roll something up, I might look to roll this up. Let's take a look at that spread. Could we? Yeah. Okay. Cool. So let's take a look at the, go to the trade page in IWM. You've got volatility kind of contracting everywhere. I don't know like, like to look for a new trip. We can go to VIX. I know you mentioned Goldman Sachs. I mentioned APA, which is Apache. I think just kind of massaging what you have that 93 put. It's trading for around 23 cents, 24 cents, 22 cents. Not doing a lot of good. Less than a dollar a day and in premium. So with 30 days off. Yes. It becomes basically a short call spread is what you have on it. Well, what do you think about just rolling up that put? Yeah. Okay. So let's, let's go. So like what? 30 delta strike, the 102 or the 101. I think you're right with the 102. I think you're exactly right. So let's buy the 93 put and sell the 102. If we're around a dollar five, let's go into dollar five and see what happens. So you've been looking for a little bit of, could you just got filled? There we go. Let's see. Russell just made a new low down $17.80. So that spread, I don't think it's traded much higher. So here's an example where, you know, here I was down $1.86. Here's an example where you're selling a put spread. Like Tom would say, you know, we're selling it to strength, which is a little bit not misleading, but it's not 100% accurate because I was actually going down. You have short delta and you're selling a put spread into the weakness of the stock. That's our way of rolling up a put to get long delta. That's what we would consider rolling into strength. We want to roll and out of the money put closer when the stock is going low because it hasn't actually put the move much today. But that put that you're selling has moved so much more. Now we can do that by just going to go to April for a moment because it'll hold more value as the stock goes down towards it. The put you're selling is increasing in value. That's correct. Change, probably being in the money to net change and you'll get a little bit picture, a little better picture. Okay. So the 102 put that you sold right now is up 42 cents today. Let's go down to the 93 put. 93 put that you bought back for seven cents higher than you would have yesterday. So on the whole spread, you're looking at around 32 to 34, depending on where you get filled on everything, 30 so much sense. So when we're rolling up a put, we like to roll into weakness of the stock if it's out of the money. Now if it's in the money put, it's a little bit different. If I'm short in the money put and I'm looking to roll, you got to think where the delta is. If I'm short in the money put, I've got a lot of short delta. I still want to kind of roll when the stock is going lower. Yeah, because that'll, as a stock. For a different reason. Yeah. As the stock goes up, you'll, that put will lose value one to one almost. That's for an in the money put. So I mean, the more it goes down, the better it would be to roll at that point. That's better than when it's going up. That's correct. That's correct. Because the short in the money put as the stock goes higher is hurting you or helping you. It's hurting. That's correct. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay. We've got a couple of extra minutes here. You want to look at Apache or do you want to go into VIX or do you want to go into Goldman Sacks? I mean, I was thinking we could have dealt with Goldman Sacks. Okay. So look at this Delta real quick on the monitor tab if we could. All right. So you went from 216 or something like that to around 200. Now I know the markets moved a little bit too. So that could move you Delta a little bit too. And I should have probably looked at IWM, but you're basically flat in IWM with too long Delta's which are baited. And I think we picked up some, we're using a little more buying power in IWM. Oh, you about $900. Okay. About $900. Because remember, you only, you had a, remember it was only about a six or seven dollar wide spread. So that might change if we want to go into Goldman Sacks because that'll, we still have a lot on the table to use. Yeah. You still got almost seven eight grand sitting on the sidelines. All right. Let's go to Goldman Sacks and see what's going on. Could we go to a chart of Goldman Sacks just to see what it's been doing and where it's been. I do have a position of my personal account in Goldman Sacks. It's not. I don't find the greatest success in it. Yeah. Just because the markets are a little bit wide and so the strikes, but I'm just giving you that as color to whatever you decide because I really don't know what you're going to do here. Stocks 152, you got a 38% IV rank. You can set that higher low. It's a little low, but I'm looking at both the IV rank and the IV percentile. It's kind of in the upper range. Okay. So you're thinking any type of strategy here either? Yeah. I think anything's on the table. Okay. Let's go, let's go into Goldman Sacks. Go to trade page. I'm going to assume April, right? Yeah. Okay. So you're going to have a change to tasty trade, which will just give me probably being out of the money. Okay. What are you thinking? I was looking at the 140, 165. It's a strangle. Sorry. Okay. It's a little tighter. I mean, you could go into the, it's hard with the $5 wide strikes. You could drop this down to the 135, 165 and still get that's, you know, over a dollar in credit. I mean, I don't hate it because I like the strategy. It's a little bit on the fence. Like if you were doing this in an ETF that I normally would trade, I say, go right ahead. If you were doing this in Apple, I'd say, go right ahead. Goldman Sacks, $10 expected move over the last, over the next 31 days, you know, you're doing the 165 call, you're outside of that range, the 135 put, you're outside it. What about an icon door? Like, you know, so it's like, just kind of, not that it defines the risk. It just takes a lot more of the volatility play out of it and brings it more into the stock is going to go sideways play. Does that make sense? So if the IV rank in here, not just the IV percentile was in the 70s, I say fire away. Okay. But at 38, it kind of gets me like, yeah, it's kind of in the middle of the range. It's kind of in the middle range. Now, you're probably going to have to go down on that call side to the 160. Okay. So let's sell the 165 only because that the 165 170 calls present trading for around 50 cents or something like that. And then the put that you wanted to sell, I think was the 140. 140. Okay. We might have to go a little bit tighter on that too. Let's go to 135 and see what it does. You're going to have to get one third to width of the strikes, right? Okay. So let's go up one strike to the 145. Well, that's one third to width of the strikes. Yeah, it's not that enticing. It's all right. So I'm going to make you put it a little bit higher than think about it because just remember, the numbers are what they are. Like you might think that 162 with a $10, $10, a half dollar, $10, $78, unexpected. That brings you right to your break even. Yeah. To the top side. To the top side. And it's basically the same exact thing to the downside. It's not that much different than your strangle. The only thing a strangle is going to do is it's going to contract a lot more with volatility. And I don't know if volatility is going to contract that much more that quick. Because that was kind of what I was looking at was a one standard deviation strangle and just kind of playing the contraction. There's only 30 days left and you can get almost $2 and credit for it. But what's volatility done over this comes now to the whole market awareness, which I know you know, a volatility is double. What's volatility done over the last two weeks without looking? You should know. It's been, it's been, it's been, I'm not going to ask you for numbers, but has it been increasing or decreasing volatility? Volatility, you can crushed. Yeah, yeah. I mean, volatility was in the high 20s. It's in the low 17s now. So even though Goldman Sachs may have held up a little bit higher on volatility than other products, it's still going to explode of volatility on a much grander scheme if volatility expands. Volatility is on its lows. I'm kind of, this is not like Netflix. Like in Netflix when we put on Netflix, I've even ranked in the 60s. Yeah, and it was high compared to the market. So that was very, very, very high. It just gives me that extra kind of oomph to go into the strategy I want to do. Okay. Let's put this in at 187. You won't get filled there. And then you can adjust it down if you want to. And you can see the markets are a little bit wide and they're too big. I'm just kidding. Let's take a quick break and go over the way we talked about here. We kind of went through your market looking for a trade. We revisited one in IWM. I actually thought it was a J. Lysard. I think you correctly said that it was a dynamic iron condor. And we decided to roll up that put used about $900 more in buying power, got a couple of long deltas that we wanted to. And we did that into weakness. Russell was making the low of the day at that point. So. Cool. Very good. Yep. And you're in a $1.87. We'll see what happens in Goldman Sachs. All right. Iron condor. Beautiful. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Knight. This time we got it right. Tim Knight is coming up next. He was off yesterday. Peace.
Video: 079 - Going Back To The Well Gld 03 16 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back. Nick, where do I start? Bevars is back. How are you son? Doing well. Kind of. Well let's take a look at your account and then we'll go from... And I understand exactly what you're saying. It's down about $86. You would down as much as $250. You would up as much as $200 I would say. Just looking at things for the day. Why do you say you're doing okay? Well I mean I was able to take off a couple positions earlier today that I would have lost out on some if I had waited any longer. Fantastic. Let's take your fill orders. Okay. And you were all... By fill orders and they're profitable trades, right? Yes. So Netflix you bought back a 570. We sold that in the 7 handled, right? Yeah. We made a buck 30. So you have sold it at $7 exactly. Alright, nice trade. We talked about how Netflix had a high implied volatility. We went a little bit closer. If I remember correctly, it clicked 7 bucks or so. And we said we'd manage it a little bit more aggressively. I think we managed it around... Was it 25, 30%? A little bit more? Yeah. Okay. Pretty close. Right? 21, $2,000, 10,000? Yeah. Okay. Good enough. And then gold. What is that? That's an old trade. Yeah. This was a string gold that we originally placed as the 1, 12, 123. And at that time it was like the gold was at like 17. So it was just like kind of a neutral strangle, 17, 18-ish. And then we rolled puts up into strength and... You showed the option chain of the whole chain on dough of this position. Okay, you're taking profits in them, right? Yeah. Okay, and I know when we close the Netflix strangle, you were like, hey, that's a lot of my theta decay. Yeah. I don't want to let it go. Part of that is, you know, they're not children. You know, they're not with you forever. Yeah. These are just trades. They work. You let them go. Okay? Yeah. Okay. And you keep the ones that don't until they work. Yeah. All right. So that brings us to a couple of trades. Let's go into a chart of EWZ if we could. And you've freed up some buying power by doing this too in Netflix and in GLD. So any strategy works now. Yeah. They're both using around 1,500 in buying power. Okay. EWZ, you have a short call spread. You had a, like almost like a, we called it straddle with no risk to the upside. Right. It's almost like a J-the-Lizard-covered straddle. Like a covered straddle, right? We're selling the at the money strike and then we're buying a call to define our risk to the upside. And we're doing that whole thing for more than the width credit, more credit than the width of the strikes. Yeah. So you have no risk to the upside. It was a small credit. We did it for like 206 or 207. So if it, it was a $2 white call spread. Yeah. So if it goes to whatever price it's almost $7. Then even. And if you're short strike in EWZ on the, I'm sorry, your long strike in EWZ on the call side, I'm looking at your account was 22 and a half. We did this when the stock was trading at 20 and a half. Yeah. So it's had a big rally up. Uh-huh. All right. Okay. High implied volatility. Yeah. It's one of the few that still has high implied volatility. I mean, overall in the market it's just been sucked out. So there's, there's not much volatility out there. And it's 24-hour stock. It's, it's barking at you. Yeah. Put that trade on. Yeah. That's going to be a fine power. Let's go into EWZ. Perfect. Okay. So in April, let's open it up. Yeah. Okay. That's your spread that you had on the 20 and a half. So the, so your risk is at 20 and a half because you're short that put, right? Mm-hmm. Okay. Okay. You have a bearish portfolio overall, right? Yeah. You should have about 250 delta's. Okay. All right. So you can make a case leaving that put, buying that put back if we're going to do a strangle or something like that, which is what I think we should do now. Let's look at your existing position for a moment. Let's forget about that 20 and a half put. You're short and in the money call spread that still has, well, it still has extrinsic value to it. It's not trading a parity. Mm-hmm. And it has about if you say 80 cents and 20 is about 60 cents. What are 55s? And we did that by taking the, the, the long, the put side for the long minus the put side for the short call. Perfect. Same strikes. And there it's a little wide too. So that's why we, I said 50, you said. Well, I just looks, I was going for the bids. You were going for the ass. That's correct. You're 100% correct. Good job out of you. Yeah. Proud of you. If we were to sell any type of put inside that call spread, meaning the inside the 20 and a half, 22 and a half strike, it's almost like, it's almost like, so that put, so the call spread alone, if today was exploration when you first started trading. And I told you you were, you have the contract, somebody else has the contract to buy the stock at 20 and a half. You have the contract to buy it at 22 and a half. You have $2 worth of risk, but it's only trading at, let's just take your price $1.50. You would say that you had 50 cents worth of risk, but you might not have understood with the stock at $24, why it's only trading at $1.50 because of time premium. So if we sell a put inside that strike somewhere and sell a call to equal almost that $2 or that $1.50 that we're trading for, we don't have any risk below $20. Even if we don't do anything with the put, does that make sense? We'll go to the analyze tab. So here's what we'll do. To be in favor, let's sell the, let's look at selling the 22 put. Oh, you don't have to, oh, you're in the analyze tab now. Okay, you can do it right from here. Let's sell the 20, 22 put because I want to get out of these half strike, you can see that. Yeah. They were a little bit, they were tighter now, but they were wider before. Okay, let's sell the 22 put and let's sell the 26 call. And what is that trading for about a buck 20 something? Buck 25. Okay. All right. Now, do me a favor, simulate buying back that 20 and a half put, because again, you're on the analyze tab, right? Let's buy that 20 and a half put at say 25 cents. Let's say puts a bit in for 25 cents and doesn't get filled. Okay. Now, unclick the strangle for a quick second and then let's look at the risk graph. So all I've done right now is I'm simulating buying back that one put and you'll notice that you have a loss at expiration of about, you said it for seven cents, we paid, it should say around 18 cents is what it should be. We paid 207. And we sold it for 207. So sold to a seven 25. It should be 18 cents, it's 23 cents. I don't know why it's off by a little bit, but you have a, let's just call it 20, 25 cents worth of loss. Okay. That's your total risk by buying back that put. If we go lower, obviously go down to show the risk graph. I mean, if we go down to 1918, 17, you're going to have that profit, right? Okay. Now, can you squish it up a little bit for me? I meant the other way, like an accordion. An accordion this way. That would be, I don't know what would that would be. That would be, what would that be? I don't know. Anyway, you could see, you could see your, you know, you profit to the downside. Okay. Let's add that strangle now and see what happens. You're actually going to have to, there you go. Okay. Go back down. Okay. So now we kind of have what looks like an iron condor on, right? I mean, you have, you have no position in EWZ right now. Yep. I mean, it's all basically risk. So we could do one of two things. Do you still have the puts, the put buy on there? Yeah, that should be all open. Yep. Okay. So you, okay. So the only difference between buying back the put and keeping the put out is $25. So you might look to buy back that put, keep the call spread and sell, basically what you're doing here is just selling a strangle. But you, but your downside is wider. Unclick the whole, the whole thing and just leave the strangle and take the put off that we bought. Yeah. Unclick everything and just keep the strangle perfect. Okay. That's a strangle. $800 and buying power. Typical just about at one standard deviation, that gray area is just inside one standard deviation. When you add the overall position, add them all now with buying the put too. You kind of have that one little hump up. And that's because we have that call spread there. That's correct. Kind of gives us more protection to a little bit more to the downside. You benefit more on a, on a close below 22 and a half than you would if you just had the strangle on. That's correct. I see this as a good standalone trade and I see it as a good adjustment to what we have. Complementary trade. It's not really a joke. And the put that we have right now with 20 some odd cents left is less than a dollar day. I mean, it's not, there's not a lot of premium that we could get out of that trade before expiration. So it's, you know, even you can think of it as a little bit. It's not going to move that much. It's almost as if you're going to be aggressive with it either. So yeah. I would put a bid in, you know, a penny or two above the bid and I would leave it. If I didn't get filled today, I wouldn't worry about it so much, especially with short delt in the rest of your positions. If we're back down to the 20 and a half handle in EWZ, I'm sure that we're going to have other things that are going to benefit, benefit us or things that we'll have to take care of. Makes sense? All right. Let's put this in at a dollar 25 and see if we get, we get filled. It's a buck 24. It's going to buck 24. It's fine. And you can put a bid in for your puts later on. You've got plenty of buying power. Yep. In your account. Okay. Perfect. Since we're on the Analyze tab, well, you wanted to do something in SPY. I mean, not at this point. Why not at this point? Go into a chart of SPY. Because the volatility is not there anymore. But you said you wanted to buy a put spread. I said we could consider that. Well, you consider a lot of things. It's America. I mean, we can do whatever we want. Yeah. Okay. So why did you say a put spread? I mean, I was looking at the 205-202s trading right about at like a dollar 50. I mean, it was trading for, you weren't paying any extrinsic value on the options. Okay. But it goes, I mean, it goes, my whole portfolio is short. So it would just be adding onto that. And I don't really want to do that. But I'd rather play to the short side than the upside right now. We could fill it with 124. Good for you. So that's why I considered that. Okay. But why did you say a put spread? Why did you say buying a put spread? You're right. I just want you to hear it. What do you mean? Just because I mean, it's really. Give me the set up. Forget about the price of the stock. Yeah. What's the volatility rank? It's low. Yeah. That's right. Okay. You got price extreme. Yeah, you got a price extreme. You got low volatility. I mean. So freaking do it. Well, I've already got my, I already have 250 short deltas. I don't know. To find rich trade. Yeah. All right. Well, then you close GLD going to GLD come on. Got two minutes. I need you to make another trade. You got to stay active. Just to accent the high end day. What difference does it make? All right. GLD. You're one by two that you had on. And why don't you put another one on? Go back to your Apple. We could go back into the 122, 124. Is that the one that you had on before? I believe so. Yes. By 1122 calls, so 224s, I'll check it for you if I can. You, I don't know if you did. You had on the, not be happy if I go into the right account. I think that was it. I don't have enough date. I don't have your, it has a pop to it. There we go. So you had on the 2224, you did it for a 56-cent credit. And you covered it for 43 cent. No, no. No, what? Did it for $1 or covered it for $7.40? $0.40. And you covered it for 43 cents. I'm sorry. Yes. This is the same exact one. Yes, so it wouldn't be. I mean, we can do it. It's the same price as what I close mine at, roughly. Which one do you have more risk? You're asked, PY. This one has more risk. Why? Because it has unlimited risk to the upside. Good job, I'll do. You're going to do one of these trades. Cool. Or if I can pick a different striking world, but you're going to do one of these two trades. Who comes up next? You got Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 080 - Ratio Spreads 03 22 2016.mp3
Transcript:  And there, there's the compl Irene Marlyngai international business from Inasterza in the400 $2S going down to the doubt, usually go down one, one and a half and then rally 11. Yeah, sometimes I forget this is too sided. A lot of, it's been almost six weeks of this. Yeah. Now, six straight, sorry, six straight trading days and just about six up weeks. It's amazing. Really is. Of one sided action. Same type of action we have on the way down too. So you got to count it both ways. Does that change the game though? No, typically it doesn't and you know what it does is going to keep everything pretty much in keel because what's going to happen is you know you're the first moves down, you're going to get you know waiting for that bounce up again like what you saw today, you know unfortunately of heinous act in Europe and then you you know you get a little bit of a down move in the market and then you know you get the buyers of the dip, you'll get that for a while until it stops. Well, let's see what your account is doing. You're about $185 for the year. On the day. On the day. Sorry on the day. You're down $2,200 for the year. You're not really going anywhere. Losing actually a little bit of money every day is what it really comes down to because that number really was up around $2,400 now it's $2,200. We got to get in the positive column. We got to do it in a good way. SPY beta weighted, you're short 400 delta's. You got about 70 theta. That's actually a good number, especially what's going on here. You know, we like to get one tenth of one percent. You have around a $30,000 account. You'll be looking around $30 on entry. Now you're you know just about halfway through the cycle or almost halfway through the cycle. Friday we got to have a day off. You should have about $50 to $60 and beta tickets about right. Just kind of extrapolated out. Your problem is in Vega you're short 125 which is not a lot of Vega but your delta's large for your Vega. Your delta should be short 50 if you have about 100 short Vega. We like short one to one and a half. One to one and a half one to two. I mean like short 100 delta short 200 Vega. So you have some short delta then. You benefited from that this morning when the EMSPs were down 10 at 11 or so before volatility has contracted and volatility is down to the 5 cents day. When it was up 30 cents which would hurt your account, you were up in your account about $350 or $4 at one point. Okay. So you know you have delta risk. You close your XOP trade. You having closed your GLD trade from yesterday. That's something we can do today. Okay. You're trying to buy some puts back at a nickel and EWZ which would take away all of your risk on one side I'm assuming. Yep. That was part of our Jade Lizard on the menu. Jade Lizard, big lizard, covers straddle. You'd be short and in the money call spread and you'd be short that in the money call spread you'd have no risk meaning that you did the whole Jade lizard for right around the width of the track. Two six two seven. So I'm going to make that. Okay. Perfect. So if you buy those puts you kind of in your buying power. Yeah. And you scratch it in your buying power. And you still have 20 days worth of you know anything can happen. Yeah. I mean it moved that way in 20 days. You can go back and I'll expect the two but certainly could. Okay. So I would look to try to close your GLD one by two that you have on. Yep. It's not in you know like something you have to do immediately but I don't know you sold it at 90 cents is trading for about 25 cents just a couple days ago. I think it'd be nice to bring the register close it up for a minute. Yahoo would be another one that I would take a look at. Yahoo you're short. It's an iron condor. You're short the 2427 puts spread. It's not going to free up any buying power and it's only using $300 but to buy those 27 puts at a penny or two. Yep. Doesn't cost you any commission. That long I have to keep there because you got no bid on it. Right. The long you keep it doesn't. And if we go back down maybe you'll sell the 27 put out again or some other put who knows okay. But not something I normally do like look to break up an iron condor but when you're looking for trades and you're looking for things to do you try to button up your account as much as possible. That would be one of the things I could button up my account. Okay. So I've got something I want you to look at. We can look at Nike which has earnings 60 some odd dollar stock, 67 dollar stock or 65 dollar stock decent implied volatility and we also have a patchy. Not the best liquidity there. I know that. Not the best liquidity. Have you traded before? Yeah. I followed Jared on a research team trade. How would you? He's horrible. What is went in doubt when you're a customer doing good find somebody else who's not doing good pick on that quick. Tom told me that. Let's go to Apache first. If we have time we'll go to APA. Jared out of all the people. Would you lose a bet? Why? It was early in my career. I didn't know. He's not still naive. I get it. It happens to everybody. All right. So you're up around 9% over the last 10 days. This is not a lot of stocks but it's following the market up. It's following oil up. It's following. Come on. It's in the oil related stock. I believe it's a driller. Driller. Yeah. Okay. 51% IV rank. Relatively high in today's environment but low-ish for the stock. IV percentile of 60%. So borderline. Yeah. You have now. So now here's how I get to like how we're going to make this trade. If we're going to make this trade. The markets I don't think are that great here too. Let's go to trade page to get a chance. Markets are a little bit wide. Lends me to a strangle at my price. Okay. $50 stock doesn't use a lot of buying power. Yes, may options. Lends me to a strangle again because I'm not using a lot of buying power. Okay. You look here. $0.75, $0.90, $1.18, $1.34. You really got to be selective with your pricing. That means going in way above mid price, maybe four or five or six cents above mid price and then kind of walking it down. And you'll notice, and it's not market makers like a guy standing on the floor or a gall standing on the floor. It's the algorithms kind of tighten up the markets for you. And you get to a little bit of an equi, you know, you get to that mid price. Okay. So I would look to do either a strangle you talked about, which I think is pretty cool actually. And I'm glad you looked at it was maybe even a ratio spread. Use it about the same amount of buying power. Okay. Let's see what he got. I was looking at, I mean, I think the strangle is the way to go. And I was looking at the 52.5, 55 ratio spread. One by two. One by two. Okay. So I have a question for you. What made you go into the ratio spread? What was your thinking behind it? That's all that's all that's all that's not wrong yet. Well, the thinking was that if oil continues as rally to, at least a little bit, stop you know, it's kind of like, you know, you know, Apache has any of their, their, their refineries or plants or rigs or anything else like that. No, what led you to get to that strategy? I mean, because I've had some success with it in perfect, perfect. That's it. That's it. All the other stuff. Yeah. That's just color. You've had success in similar products like this, like gold. You did a one by two. You got a little bit of a direction to move down in that you wanted. Yeah. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you got a little bit of a direction to move down in that direction. So you want the stock to go lower. There's a short delta play. You were directly right and gold. And in three or four days of being right, you got paid and you got paid handsomely. Yeah. You had another trade, too. Or it's gold the only one. We've done two in gold. We've done two in gold. Okay. So the reason why this is why a lot of people like people have success in an iron condor. And then they'll every stock they see, they see an iron condor play. Okay. Every stock you see, I don't want you to see a ratio spread. This one happens to fit. Yeah. Meaning you've had a huge rally. You might be a little bit bearish in oil and oil related stuff. Oil seems to have stopped for a moment. It's 41, 48. It's had a big rally also. So it fits. I don't want you to fall into the, you know, the default of a one by two all the time. Because we got to keep your strategies. Yeah. Okay. I mean, I like it. So the break even on this one was around 68 and change, right? Yeah. Sorry. 58 and change. So let's say 58, 50. Let's see what your probability of success is on this. What do you think it is? What's the probability of the stock getting up to 58, 70? Let's just round. Take a guess. Probably 30%. I'm almost going to be better than that. Let's take a look. Take a look. So you're looking around. Let's just say 18%. 18%. 19%. Okay. Maybe a 40% chance of a touch. That's pretty good. Yeah. If you can get filled with your price. Yeah. Okay. Let's go back to the trade for a quick second. Do our little trick. Make this from a buy to a sell. 118 is the mid price. Okay. 118 is the mid price. We're trying to buy it. A lot of times you'll see that that's a penny or two off. Because one option that you're trying to buy is only four or five or six cents wide. And the other option that you're trying to sell might be 15 cents wide. Just gets wider. Let's go back to the original way. All right. Let's go ahead and have a buck 20. And then they can adjust it and walk it down. Now when you walk this down, you really should walk it down by pennies. Okay. Yeah. $639 in buying power. Relatively small. So I have a question for you on this. And I know it's a downside play here. Mm-hmm. If you sell a put below. Are you going to use any more buying power? No. That's right. And we could certainly do that. You certainly could. So let's keep that one working. What put would you look to sell? Um, it's tough with the two and a half point wide strikes, but that's true. I'll probably go with the 42 and a half. How would you pick that? It's trading for over a dollar. It's just around the 30 delta. Yeah. It's kind of like fine by many. That's right. You probably could go to 45, but we're, you know, the ratio spread is a bigger. I would go to play. So you want to be a little more conservative on the put. Uh, yeah, you want to skew it down. I mean, the conservative part is subjective. You would love to get it further away because you're comparison to the 45 strike as well. Yes. Yes. Yeah, I could go to the 40 or I could go to the 42 and a half. What would, what would make you not want to sell the put? Like it doesn't cost any more buying power. And it has, let's just call it, uh, 80% probability of success. What would make you not sell the put? Uh, if you didn't want that delta risk. That's correct. That's, that's as it's as easy as that. Yeah. So if you want a more directional trade, you do the one by two, which is where I'm kind of probably leaning. I originally want to do a strangle and I was going to kind of skew it a little bit to the downside just a little bit. I think you're, you're doing that with this strategy. So yeah, I don't know. I kind of like it. Okay. Okay. Well, you can cancel and replace it and change it to price that you need. So if you're going to get a discount, you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. So if you're going to get a discount, you can get a discount. So if you're going to get a discount, you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount. And then you can get a discount.
Video: 081 - Adjusting Into Position Strength 03 23 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Need you to back when I start that versus bat how are you son wonderful? It's a great day today. Let's take a look at your account before things change real quick So he says look at you you're up a thousand and one dollars today I don't know. Let's just round and say almost half of your losses have been absorbed in one day You haven't closed the positions, but it's nice to see it working on a day when I mean 14 15 points on the e-mail It's a huge move. It's no it's not I mean the Russell is down twice as much as the e-mail recipes and NASDAQ and the down the Dow was actually down around $20 a moment ago. It's down 90 now so Been a nice day for you. Yeah, and it's about time and go to the field orders I don't want to talk about too much I know you talk about it on dough when you do trades really just rolling into strength rolling up some of that caterpillar Rolling up some of that IBM you're rolling up the untested side a lot of people get confused when you roll We like to reduce the delta on that position by one third to one half You're not looking for delta neutrality. You're just looking for one third to one half to reduce the delta by and then you bought your Strangle back in Tesla just go to just go to the bottom of Tesla for a moment Your small profit in Tesla about 42 bucks is what it says for the year. It's the only trade you had in Tesla this year so far We sold a strangle at $1.75 two standard deviations away Tesla just like the rest of the market has had a huge run up you find we had a roll-up puts you finally get You finally get a little bit of a downside moment. We decided what was about two weeks you've had the trade on? Yeah, something like that right hasn't been long hasn't hasn't been long We were looking to make about $80 we took half of that or 25% today Just because things haven't been working out for you. You're ringing a register Take something that was a hundred hour loser making to a forty dollar winner. Listen just managing the winners It's all you can do. Yep. All right. Let's talk about today Cool. Okay. I told you a moment ago and if you heard me but I WM is the largest mover down Yeah, you have short deltas and I WM diamonds Q's and SPY basically everywhere. I thought maybe I Could show you something I WM cool. All right. You sure? Yeah. Okay. Let's go to the Count statement tab for a moment if we could all right, so If you I think if you highlight these you'll be able to make a new trade key to be a favor on three eight You still have these trades on the one eleven one fourteen ninety nine ninety four five dollar wide iron condo You just did this on the eighth today's the twenty third just right click and tell me where that's trading So it's trading at around fifty cents you sold it a dollar five. Yeah, should you be closing that? Yeah, okay, let's go to the next one. So you should probably close that and Let's go to the strangle that's up there the one ten one oh one So if for two dollars and thirty five cents on the same day remember this is when we were rolling everything You had a bad position in I WM not that you're I WM positions any better than it is than it was back then But we're trying to make things happen you sold it a two thousand thirty five cents trading for a dollar nine should you close it? Yep, okay So we're gonna close those two trades and then we're gonna look to open something else now Moment ago if you go back to your account statement tab you've kind of set yourself up nice for this little down move today Which is the first hopefully of of maybe two or three? Yeah, listen? No no big shakes I mean you're you're still down a thousand dollars or more for the year eleven or else for the year I'm not saying this is a great thing to happen, but finally got just a just one move in your direction You've been carrying a lot of delta's you're short just about three hundred delta's in SPY you've had about four hundred Coming in this morning. You're only using sixteen hundred dollars worth of buying power. So after we buy those positions back Mm-hmm. I'd like to put on another strangle in I WM Cool one that's a little bit more delta neutral if you notice in I WM right now you have about twenty short delta's We'd be reducing our delta in the overall ports portfolio Minstrily by about twenty delta's Out of the three hundred that you have okay, okay? Yeah, okay good. Let's go in I WM Or you know what right from the account statement tab. Let's just do it right from there if you want to Account statement to my apologize Let's go to the iron condor first Create opposite order. Let's go in a fifty cents and see what happens 51 is fine Okay, and then let's do the one ten one oh one and we can cancel and replace those and see if we can get filled Let's go in it one on nine. Tell good to you. Oh, okay. Go in one night And no dinks. Okay, so we'll let those work When those get traded let's go back into I WM if we could for a moment Let's trade page I apologize When those get filled I'd like to sell something that's a little bit more neutral right here File until he's up 83 cents file till he's expanding a little bit all the way around Open up the April options. We'll stay in April Let's take a look at selling something like the one oh nine one oh five or one oh nine and a half if you want to one oh five Strength I'm going to around that 30 delta if you want to go since the market's moved down a little bit If you want to go one oh four and a half one oh four you tell me which one so we're between one oh five and one oh four any of those strikes Um Let's go to the one oh five. Okay, give us a little more perfect long delta. Okay, neutral site and what what what call you want to do And then we can go to the one oh nine call. Okay, perfect click on the one oh nine call All right, so let's let's go up at two 18 or 19 make it make it like two 19 hit confirm and send and send now all you have to do is cancel and replace When you get filled on the other ones to execute this one You know what I mean it's just nice to have it in there. You know what strikes you're gonna have and you're gonna be completely done Okay, why are we going to April instead of May? 23 days to go you certainly could make the argument to go into May we have one position I think in May Do we have any in your account? I'm so sorry. I don't know That is a good question Well answered this way go into a chart of IWM if you could IWM relatively high implied volatility relatively low Relatively low. Okay, when it if it was high I would be more inclined to go into May. Okay Since it's not that high and I already have an existing position. I'm taking all the ones off I want volatility to expand I've got almost half your account sitting on the sidelines I want to put all the work. We've have a smaller position IWM cues and SPY than we've had in the pre months I welcome the volatility expansion. That makes sense. Okay. All right, you wanted to do something We have a quick moment in GLD is that correct? Let's stay right here for a moment and let's walk it through By the way everything that we did in your account in IWM if you have filled on all of them doesn't change your buying power at all It gets you from negative 38 deltas to about negative 14 deltas Unbatoated and it gets you from a eight dollars in theta decay to seven dollars in theta decay But it's a lot more neutral of a trade Okay, all right Gold yeah, so it's say story the the implied volatility rank is low. I mean it is everywhere, but it's It's had a spike up in the last couple days obviously with the The stock has dropped. I think it's down to dollar two dollars 22 cents today This is the same point that we entered into our last triangle that was profitable was right around this 117 mark Okay, but valetoo was higher it was high almost double. Okay So I was just looking at a neutral string. So the thing that sells me on this what you haven't mentioned yet And I was hoping you would IV percentile 73 percent Listen the IV rank of 27 tells me I shouldn't be selling premium in here The IV percentile of 73 percent and I don't want to curve fit this But that tells me that historically valetoo is still high in here It warned something doesn't mean I'm gonna change my size Doesn't mean I'm gonna change my direction. I'm actually gonna try to pair it down a little bit make a little bit smaller Because I don't have everything in in the boxes that I need checked But I'm okay with it. Okay, go on a geodate tell me what you want to do So I was looking in May Okay, perfect and I was looking at the 109 125 Okay, so it's a standard yeah 15 percent basically on on each side. You're just averageant train for around 146 Yeah, I like it go ahead. Well, why not how much buying power is it gonna use you know And I can put it on you, but you're 13 hundred click it one time see what he says. Yeah, 15 hundred. Okay, perfect. Why'd you say 13 hundred? Um, I cuz it's between it seems to be 15 and 20 percent of of the strike price Perfect, I do that all day long on the show when I'm doing something I just kind of Come up with a ballpark estimate it from past experience in trading That's what this is all about all right hit send Um, could you do me favor go back to the count statement tab? I don't want to curve fit things you've had another position on in iwm for quite some time. I Yeah, there you go Open up history It's um, I'm sure maybe it's that uh, no Hmm I think it's go a little bit slower shoot It's gotta be in April go up a little bit further Uh, one oh maybe it's 105 is that oh no, so one with the one oh two you have one oh seven calls or something that you're short Yes, I have a one oh seven call and then think of that a little bit further it was a long time ago I'm sorry right there. Okay, stop. So this position you put on a 223 it was a 107 110 three dollar wide kind of like um a dynamic iron condor will be three dollars wide on the call side significantly wider It's almost six dollars wide on the put side. It was a delta neutral trade from 223 till now you know the market has gone nothing but straight up Let's see how you're doing on this trade. Well that 93 put I believe we rolled off I 100% understand what I'm trying to show you here is you're down 20 cents or 22 cents 23 cents On something that you were dead wrong on just because you got one day to come back your way So you need to show I mean that you don't need to show a little patience The same the audience Sometimes you need to have a little bit of patience you have a defined risk trade here's a trade that's three dollars wide on your tested side like I'd be more fearful of this trade if I was getting tested on the puts Then I would on the calls because I have I'm basically a 50 50 shot here, right? I'm risking you know a dollar 20 a little bit more I'm risking a dollar 20 you know I'm risking a dollar 80 to make a dollar 20 Defined risk like like this is a trade that gone bad. I hate it and it stings But there's nothing I can do about it. Does that make sense? Yeah except roll up the put side is what we've already done And when you rolled up the puts go back there for a minute We rolled up the 93 puts so let's find the 93 puts go a bit further There we go 102 93 puts confirm it. Yeah, thank you. Great Are you sold at a dollar five is trading a 50 cents? So was it a good roll up? Yep So win win. Yeah, so on that spread on that trade that you're doing you sold it a dollar 20 It's trading on a dollar 40 just rounding if you had done nothing We actually rolled up you're up 30 cents on the trade It's pretty good. Yeah, doesn't it listen? That's just one trade in a portfolio What I'm trying to show you is if you get a little bit of cyclicality in the market You can make things happen if you get a one-way market the way we trade It's difficult and you got a kind of just find your number of currencies you closed your Tesla trade Find your number of currencies you did a couple of one by two find your number of currencies So you buy yourself time to be right on everything else All right, cool. Let's say a quick break here and go over everything we talked about today We really tried to find a new trade in iwm kind of rolling into strength changing our overall position You're gonna have to cancel and replace these orders To get yourself filled cool sound good. Yeah, okay who comes up next ten nights next peace
Video: 082 - Finding Opportunity When The Market Is Flat 03 28 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Hey, good back. Bat vs. bat. Happy Monday to you. Happy Monday to you. Happy Monday after Kansas is knocked out of the tournament. Yeah. I've put that in the back of my mind. I'll wait till next year. Because we'll be back. See you're there every year. Yeah. And then Kansas is Kansas in the tournament. That's pretty much the tournament. Yeah. That's pretty much a guarantee. I haven't seen the final since you put the kiboshis. Since 2008 when we won it. When you put the kiboshis, you went to school. Yeah. You went to school. They're going to school there. Did you go to school in 2008 or 2009? 2009 was my first year. Right. So you went out this year. So you decided to go to school. Right. You missed it. Yeah. So you went to Kansas 2009. They didn't make it. 10. 11. 11. The championship game lost to Kentucky. I know. Basically blaming on you. I'm losing. I blame this on you too. I think we can get your account. You know, lose. You have about $134.35 right now. Slow day. Oh. Yeah, it is a slow day. Yeah. What do you do when you have a slow day in the market? Kind of just hang. Let it work itself. I mean, taking some theta in. We are. Can I too much? Yeah. James made a good point. Your PNL's twice what your theta decay should be on basically an unchanged day. I mean, you got the Nasdaq down seven. EMESAP is basically unchanged. So you got some things working out for you and that everything, but some things. All right. So what do you do today then? I mean, we can. So you don't have high implied volatility anywhere. Yeah. It's hard to find stuff. You get that 18 day versus 50 some odd day. You can't really be in the back month. You don't want to be putting new trades on the front month. You should go through your go through your account. Yeah. All right. So I'm just looking at the PNL. The best PNL the day right now is an XLE. So let's take a look at what you have in there. So an XLE basically have a synthetic 59s and a half straddle because we have those two. That's correct. We have a 59 straddle and a 60 straddle. So you know, correct those together 59 and a half. Correct. And you bought some wings to kind of define the risk, but really use less buying power. Yeah. Okay. I see did a filled order already today. Did you move that? It was a key role. You could use. Yeah. Okay. So you went from April to May. Okay. And that frees up to $2,000 in buying power. Let's use it again. Okay. So let's roll. I mean, you know, we rolled the cue puts on I think the 24th. Yeah. We did it for about 46 cents. And then you rolled that for was a 20 cent debit. So that's not just extending duration for a 26 cent credit. All right. So when you roll, when I'm looking to roll, I typically roll everything at the same time. But I'm thinking just because it's so slow and you're going to just look for something to do, maybe we just roll one of your strangles instead of both. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So let's take a look at your short 32 deltas right now. Let's see how this changes and your theta decay is $11.91. Okay. Let's go to the trade page. So you're kind of rolling into strength, meaning you have short delta. You want XLE to be lower. It is lower. It's about mid range for the day a little bit to the lower side. Which one do you make a decision? Which one do you want to roll? Um, I mean, really they're so close to each other. It's kind of a wash on which yeah, six just six and a half dozen of them. Yeah. It really, really is. I always opt for the one that's kind of deeper in the money. Because you'll notice the delta on the back month is going to be a little bit better for you, meaning not quite as short. Okay. Okay. So let's buy the 59 straddle and let's sell in May the 59 straddle. I mean, I guess you could go the 59 and a half if you really wanted to, but I would stay. Yeah. Okay. Buck 88. It's actually come down a little bit, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's look at it as about 190 mm. Okay. A couple of sides. All right. Let's, the market's a little widen there. You can see the natural 166 188. Let's, um, let's take a look at what this would be to buy it and see if it's trading higher. Okay. Pen here too. Let's go in it. Let's go in at 190 and then you can, you can walk it down and see if we get filled in. Cool. Yeah. We can go in and then buy the wings as well. We can. I mean, we have, we have what? Almost 12 grand sitting on the sidelines right now. So we have the buying power to keep that open. Sure. Sure. And we will keep it open. Click send. Let's take a look at the chart of X-O-L and see what the, what the IV rank is in there too. That's relatively low. It is 35%. IV% to 51%. Yeah. It's hard to get excited right now. Yeah. I'm not going to lie. I'm not going to lie. It's a little, it's a little difficult. Yeah. It does. It's tough to find new opportunities. I mean, I was looking at EWZ again and we've been putting on a number of positions there that we have in April. It's been on a monster run. It's been on a monster run. Even the premium in May isn't, isn't as pumped up as the IV rank. Would IV% would imply. There isn't a lot of premium out there right now. Sure. I mean, in the 84 rank on a $25.26 and 1.5 dollar stock, you're still only looking at 75 cents for that out of the strike money. Okay. All right. So what next? You did X-O-L-E. You talked about EWZ. We have one pig in your account that's actually just about half of all of your losses. And it's on one contract. You know what it is. Twitter? Yes. Yes. How about we roll Twitter? I know we're not doing it into strength. I mean, we would want the stock to be higher because you have bullish deltas in Twitter. If you unclick the beta-weighted, all right. So you basically long 100 shares of Twitter, right? Those 18 calls aren't going to help you anything. Yeah. Want to roll it? Sure. I mean, it's only $1 a day that we can... Yeah, you know what I mean? That's called. It's really not doing anything. Not at all. Not at all. Yeah. Yeah. So basically what you're doing here is you're just really kind of going through your account and trying to make things a little... Clean things up a little bit. Clean things up a little bit. All right. So we're going to buy the 18 call. Now the big decision. We'll be going into earnings, though, I think. Good. I think it only saved you. Yeah. Which could really only help you. The stock goes to $25. It gets you out of this thing. You could talk about it with the grandkids, something. Yeah. All right. So what's striking is so, talk about it with the grandkids or give it to that. Or give it to them. That's probably... Hopefully they'll talk to them about it. It'll long be gone. You don't want to be owning it. All right. So what strike to go to? Do you stay with the 18s? Do you go to the 17s? I mean, the 30 Delta is probably the strike to go to. I mean, we usually... Well, you're right in the middle. Yeah. Change position to Delta for me if you could. Maybe they'll make it a little bit easier for you. Okay. Now what do you do? Yeah. Well, we usually go for the first strike out of the money, but... Oh, you can't go down to 16. Yeah, you can't go down to 16. So I would say the 17 is... Oh, 18, did you say? 18, I would say 18 is great. 18 is great. 18 is great. 18 is great. 18 is great. 18 is perfect. Great. Going in mid price, 63 cents. Let's see, we can get this done. You only need a little bit of an uptick. So you need a little bit of a downtick in XLE. You need a little bit of an uptick in Twitter. You'll probably get the opposite in both. And that could fill the neither one. Nice. Okay. Okay, so have you looked through your account at all to see if there's any type of buying power reduction? Go back to the monotep. Any type of buying power reduction that you can use or anything you have. What about the TLT position you have on in there? That seems to be working okay for you today. I have a working order in there for 50%. Oh, I didn't notice. I'm sorry. Yeah, a bunch of work orders were pretty good. Yeah, you've been busy. Okay. What do you mean? You've been trying to buy forever. That's part of a Jade lizard for a nickel. Okay. Trying to buy that back just to close that out for no commissions. I don't know. It's not doing anything for me. Delta wise or anything like that. Sure. And then the TLT position. I just put the GTC order in there. Okay. So just remember if you're going to use a GTC order, which is not my favorite thing to do, but I certainly understand, especially when you're far away from it, the way you are right now, I personally prefer an alert. I mean, that when that position trades at that price, send me an alert to my email and then I can adjust the market. If you're going to and you have the liberty to see the market every day, and you're going to open up your account every day before the market opens and you're going to be seeing what bonds are doing and you want to keep that in as a GTC. Okay. Go ahead. I certainly understand, especially on an iron condor that's basically at the money. Yeah. So those positions where you would get, you know, on the open, it would probably not. It's not going to be much higher than that price. Like you're not going to be giving up that much money on it's not a test. Well, it's not going to move $5 overnight. It's not a Amazon's going to move $3, $4. Yeah. You're right. It's going to be within its kind of range. And volatility's not going to expand greatly. By the way, have you seen Tesla lately? I haven't looked today. Go ahead and take a look at it. It's about $4 in change. Let's see what it's doing. I mean, there's usually always premium to be having there. So it's up $3.84 back up near the highs. I mean, you want to do something stupid? Sure. Okay. Let's take a look at Tesla. So I was thinking about doing like a skewed iron condor. You got 41% IV rank. It's not great. I think you have to stay in April. Okay. Because you have earnings coming. You want to kind of take a little bit of advantage of this move up, although it's selling off a little bit right now. So it's not as good as it once was. Let's take a look at the 2.40, 2.45. All right. So that's about $1.65. It's a $5 wide strike for trying to do an iron condor. I'd like to get around $2.25. Something that's going to be not half the width of the strike. It's a little bit less than half the width of the strikes. Why? If it's more than half the width, then you'll have less than a 50% chance of profit on it. So if I collect less in credit, it has a higher than 50.50 chance. It's exactly what I want. So let's go down a little bit further and try to look for a puts spread a little further away. Like how about like the $1.95, $1.90 or that might be too far. How about what we can do? We can change it. That'd be for about $0.30, right? 40 cents. $1.95, $1.90. I mean, I don't hate it. I mean, it's silly trade. No, I mean, it is. I mean, it's just you're just, you know, you got 18 days to go. It's kind of not what we normally would look to do. If you can get filled on a rally at your price, let's go up a couple of ticks. Let's go up at like $2.15 or something like that. I mean, get filled at your price. Maybe it's, maybe it works. Take a shot. Okay. All right. Good job, Eddie. You too. We got an unchanged market. You've actually lost about $70 while we've been sitting here. You only have about 90 bucks now. I blame you for that. You blame me too. Let's take a quick break and go over everything what we talked about today. Kind of a slow day in the market, basically unchanged. You already have volatility products. You already have all your ETFs in there. You certainly could add to ETFs. You have plenty of buying power. Valtility has an expand and price has an expand. Meaning price on the market has expanded. So we kind of go through what you have and we look to roll or kind of reduce some of your delta a little bit. We tried to do that in XLE. Yeah, and that volatility contraction kind of affects how our rolls will. That's correct. That's correct. That's correct. The volatility is down 30 cents today. Everything is fine on the Western front. That's the worst. That's at the market, Salad. All right. Yes. Who comes up next? Tim Nye. Peace. Peace.
Video: 083 - Rolling Itm Call Spreads 03 30 2016.mp3
Transcript:  You can back when I start bad versus bad. How are you son? Another not so good day for me. I'm surprised I'm not down more than I am right now. You were down more earlier today with the E-Mini S&P's trading up about 6-7 points. You are significantly more. Yeah. How does it make you feel? Not so good. I got this new shirt though. I really like it though. Really? You got money for that shirt? Yeah. What is it, origami? There's little origami birds on here and some paper airplanes. It's going to be your next job. Let's take a look at your account. Things keep up. Yeah, you're down about $80-90 for the day. $1800. We've given back about 800 bucks pretty quick to these last few days. We run a nice roll there for a while. How come you didn't close everything when you were on a nice roll? I blame you for all of that. Because you don't know what's going to happen, right? Of course. I mean, how do you feel for the rest of the year? You feel out domestic? You feel? Yeah, I'm still out domestic. I mean, I... Boy, you're a glutton for punishment. Oh, well, you know, the price of tuition. It's right here, but... Yeah, I love that. I hate that saying, but I mean, I love it. You know, it's true, but it's not accurate. Yeah. Like, you're not supposed to lose money, but you are supposed to learn. And I don't know if they go hand in hand. Yeah. But you've got me guiding you. How come you're doing so bad? I just hasn't gone in our direction. That's the answer. Yeah. I mean, it really is not the game's not over. And I'm not... I haven't lost the confidence to put on trades or stay in the game. I mean, I'm not trying to run for the hills right now. Good, good, good, good. Okay. Well, let's look at something that we can maybe roll here. 16 days to go in the front month. You've got a bad position and a lot of ETFs. Let's look at IWM if we could. You're short about 330 deltas. So you know, you do a $1 move on the A&E S&Ps and you're going to be down $300, $400. So your deltas have grown. Let's see if we can minimize them a little bit and go from there. Let's go to the trade page at IWM. All right. Without using too much more buying power now, a lot of call spreads, wide call spreads that you have on in April. You have short put spreads against them too. So if we only would a roll the call side of it or roll the put side of it from April to May, you are going to use additional buying power. Now you have the additional buying power sitting on the sidelines. So we have the liberty of doing it in steps. There's really no advantage other than the price movement. If we get to move down it'll, it'll be advantageous that you did in steps. If we get to move up, it'll be detrimental that you did it in steps. Okay. Makes sense? Yeah. So here is we're going to use some buying power, but we're going to quickly get it back over. Hopefully the next couple of days if we ever get a down tick in the equity market. Yeah. And that circumstance we look to roll the put spreads then. Sure. I mean, it's six of one half dozen of another which one you roll first. I'm going to go to the call side just because I think it's easier for people who are watching to kind of just trade with calls. It's easier for people instead. You have a short call spread. You want the stock to go down. It's not the opposite of like having a short put spread. You want the stock to go up kind of thing. Okay. All right. So you're short, a relatively deep in the money call. You're short the 107 call. This is left over from a dividend play and a strangle and an iron conduit we had from a month or so ago. I'm going to look to roll that 107 call. Now if you go back down a little bit further, you'll notice you have one call spread there the 109 110. But you're really just short and naked call. You have the 116 against it. But it's not like it's not going to help you. The 116 call only allows you to use less buying power. Nothing else, right? Yeah. All right. So let's roll that 107 16 call spreads. Let's buy the 107 calls and let's sell the 116s. Now it's going to use about a naked call would use around $2200 in buying power. This is going to use only about nine, right? Nine or the different. Nine or the different. Nine or the different. Let's, yeah, thank you. And let's go to May and you already have a strangle on it, May. Let's sell the same strike, right? I mean, 107 is still, remember you have that put call parity. It's still a 30% probability of getting to 107, which is a 60% chance of a touch because it's 50 days to go. You notice how it was almost double. There was only a 16% chance in April. There's almost a 33, 35% chance in May. It's time. Yeah, it's time. Sure. All right. And let's buy the 116 call in May just to keep it all equal. Okay. It's about a 57 cent credit. It's been trading a lot higher today. Even the S at P's are 11 and change. So as the market goes higher, this credit is actually going to go lower. As the market goes lower, this credit is actually going to go higher. So let's go into 57 cents and see what happens. And that's because they in the money. If you ever make good. The in the money short call will. It'll cost more to buy that back than the decrease in price to sell that long option. Yeah. The April spread is going to be a lot quicker. Yeah. It's really what it comes down to. The April synthetic short 107 call is going to move about 75 to 80% with the stock move as opposed to the May 107 116 call spread that would probably only move about 45 to 50% of the movement of stock. So it's not a huge difference, but it is a difference. In fact, before we make this trade, you can't do it here, right? And go to the analyze tab right from here. You can. So if you analyze duplicate trade and see if it pops up. And I want to just show you your Greeks. If he has it, if it pops up there, if they've changed, let's see the bottom. And you're going to have to show me the sets like this too. Oh, you have to do it there. OK. So while he's saying that up, all I'm going to try to do is I'm going to show you about how much your delta moves if you were able to make this trade. You have to get rid of that vertical up there. Oh, that's the one you just put in. I'm sorry. So he simulated the trade, buying the call spread, and then selling the call spread. Perfect. OK. OK. Great. And let's, let's, uh, unclick it for a moment. All right. So you have about 90 short deltas. You notice on the top there, you should have about 90 short deltas and use about $4,700 in buying power. Now let's click it and just see how it changes. So you only use about, let's just call it 70. So you reduce it by about 25 deltas. It's about 25% of what you have. And you're using the more buying power that I talked about. So using more buying power, reducing our delta, are you adding more risk or are you, are you not adding risk? Um, I mean, you are adding more risk because now you have positions in two expressions. They don't. Yeah. If you're using more buying power, I would say that you're adding more risk to a little bit of an unusual circumstance here. As you're not changing the strike, you're not adding any more extra units and you have less delta, less delta would mean less risk. So you've kind of got this balance. Once you roll that put spread to May, I would say that you've added no risk. Yeah. So your risk right now is that for argument six, we fall out of bed like a crash. Your put spread now goes to $16 that you're short and you do something with that and cover it and then all of a sudden we rally all the way back and your call spread now goes to $16. So I would consider it a neutral, not not adding any more risk. You're actually rolling for duration, give yourself less delta, which is probably beneficial to your overall account. Definitely. Now you just can't get the, you need the EMS and piece to down tick as well. Yeah, now they're up to it. All right, so let's go into $0.57 and then we'll send this one where it was a moment ago. Perfect. Buy powered 7800 bucks. Okay, we'll see if that, we'll see what that works. Okay, so I have a new trade for you. Cool. Can we go to a chart for a moment? R-I-G. Rig. Yes. Don't snicker. Somebody snicker on the sidelines there. Why? Because we've been involved in this stock before. It's certainly IV rank of 53 has earnings May 25th, so it's after May expiration. You're hungry for a trade, a new trade. Stocks had a nice move down, but it's down around 22 or 23% in the last 10 days with oil. Oil's been at a low. You've kind of neutralized a little bit of your oil delta, especially in XLE from yesterday. So I think you can get a little bit bullish in here. What do you think? I think that would help my portfolio because I have short. I don't doubt does everywhere else out there. This isn't going to be a huge decision. This is a highly correlated product to SPY, so. But yes, all right, let's go into trade paid suit. We got here. Good thing about this is you're going to use less than $100 in buying power. So your return on capital if that means anything to you and the people outside, it's going to be big. Cool. Before we make this trade, we got about four minutes, three minutes. That 83% implied volatility. Implied volatility tells you what? Like what does that mean to you? Besides it being high, that's obvious. Yeah. Yes, and P at 15 or 16% that there's something going on there. Yeah, I mean, there's a lot of uncertainty. Okay. Okay. 100% it could go to 20 or zero is pretty much what we're looking at. Perfect. That's exactly what I wanted you to say. That's right. You got this. Yeah, pretty good. Pretty good. Yeah, that's great. That's exactly right. 100% implied volatility, meaning it was zero or 18. You just kind of did the man. Yeah, I mean, I. Very good. That's awesome. That's awesome. All right, let's go to May. Okay. What do you sell? I mean, you could sell the puts. So now let's look at the cover call. I mean, kind of because it's one of those stocks, it's a little price. Okay, so you want to go in the stock you could. Perfect. So you already have a portfolio that's kind of in trouble, right? So a covered call makes more money as the opportunity to make more money than a naked put or does a covered call have less opportunity? Can you make more with a covered call? You can make more with a naked put. Return on capitalized or just overall. Overall. You can make more from a covered call. Right. You can make more from a covered call. If you're buying the stock at nine and you sell the 10 covered call, you can make more money because the stock price from nine to 10 is a hundred bucks and you make $65 on the 10 call. If you sell the nine put, you only make a hundred dollars. Okay. So I'm going to look to be a little more conservative and I think you're going to hate the price that I'm going to go in with here because look at where the stock is. I mean, the stock trading almost near ties, right? I mean, 15 cents off of ties or so. I got down to 850 and change. Yeah, from today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's stock certainly doesn't look like it's crazy bullish, right? Okay. Let's look to sell the eight puts, but let's go up a little bit. Probably around 69 or 70 cents. Let's see what that does. Okay. Stop right there. So 69 cents. So we need the stock to go down by about 30 cents for you to get filled. Not unreasonable. I mean, I know you only have 45 minutes, but I mean, oil is up seven cents now. It was down 10, 15 cents at one point today. Yeah. So it needs a little bit of moving oil and it needs a little bit of moving here. I think you don't get aggressive. You go into your price. Okay. Okay. Yeah. All right. Hit confirm and send one time. $81 in buying power. Okay. It's sent. You'll probably lose about 600 bucks on this trade. Nice. Great. Let's take a quick break and go around. Then we talked about here. We looked at a new trade and rig. We went in our our price. If we don't get filled, that's cool. One minute. We'll wait. And then we rolled in the money. Would you consider the call spread or would you consider the naked call? I mean, it's a naked call. It's a naked call. It is four legs, which would mean that it is a spread, but I look at it as a naked call. We rolled a naked call or looking to roll a naked call from May from April to May. Okay. Good job, Eddie. Now, if you could do something about the market, I know. I know. It's tough. Tough day. Who comes up next? No peace this time. No, no peace. No peace. Peace. Peace. Peace.
Video: 084 - Gld Ratio Spread And Tlt Strangle 04 05 2016.mp3
Transcript:  One. Nick, we're back. Where do I start? Bad versus bad. How are you, son? Good. Everything okay? Yeah, solid day. Solid day. Yeah, markets, I mean, that's piece down 13, that has deck down 20, down down 68. You say solid day because you have a little bit of short delt in your portfolio. Let's take a look at it. I mean, but the market's only down half a percentage. It's point not even that big of a day, especially from where we've come. I mean, I don't think of this as any sign or anything else like that. When you're holding 200 short delta, it helps to have a 1% move like this. After we've had two weeks of up moves, it's one down move makes a big difference. We've had two this week so far. It's 200 delta. Yeah, whoa. We hopped off. Seems that way. Let's go to your full daughters and see what you did here. Okay, so it looks like in VXX, the bottom one, that would be in the order that you did them the bottom to the top. You just rolled your puts. Yeah. And you had a put spread on to save a little bit of buying power. So I'm assuming in VXX, I'm just looking, you're using about $1100 in buying power. You could probably buy a put like the 13 put, which would save you 300 bucks. I think right now, it's not something that you have to do with the amount of buying power. You just live left in your account. Okay. So you rolled, why roll that trade? I mean, since prior to today, it was trading, I'm not sure. Yeah, but just talk about this here. You down to a box. Yeah, I mean, we finally got a not move of rolling into strength. I was able to do this for a decent credit. And so if you sold this put originally for $1.20, you now do this spread for 83 cents. You're in the trade for like $2. And the put is trading, let's just say $4 or something like that, because you're down 200 bucks. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. I think it's the right thing to do. VXX, you just sold the 16 put for $6. Sure. Yeah. Payed off in the commission. You make $4.50, you know, on to your credit. I get it. You know, it's a small incremental steps in a one contract portfolio. You know, you want to stay in mechanical is not really the $5 that you make. IBM, you rolled a vertical spread into weakness, same thing that you did in VXX. Yeah. Strength for our position, weakness of the stock. So the stock is going down our position to go down. You know, we're inverted. We need that the stock to go down. So we're rolling into strength of our position. Okay. Same thing you did in caterpillar, it looks like. And then why do you sell those puts for two cents? That's not really something that we would do even if you are a lot. Yeah, that was just something I was doing in as part of a trade to get it to go to Doe just to. Also, like the chain that you put out there to get the chain out of there. You have one option sticking out the chain. Yeah, so I am. That was part of a dynamic. Okay, I'm going to work. I get on your side. Yeah, we do things on the show sometimes that we would necessarily do, you know, in if it was our own trading just to keep it tight and mechanical. And you're doing that there. I get it. But two cents, I mean, it's 50 cents after $1.50 commission. Yeah, well, it's not a loss. If you were back in New York in 1979, you'd be able to buy yourself a cup of coffee. You can't do that now anymore. It's 50 cents a minute. Yeah, put it in the piggy bank. Put it in the piggy bank. Your brother calls it a piggy bank. I don't know where he gets it from. Maria, I never had those. No, you never had those. No, you always spoke properly. It's that good upbringing I got you. Oh, yeah. All right, so by these rolls in Caterpillar and IBM, you actually reduced some of your short delta. So you're not quite as short as you were before. You still need Caterpillar. You still need IBM lower also. You can't appeal. You probably still have a chance to make a small amount of money. And in IBM, you're probably going to be end up being like down two or three hundred bucks. Yeah, down a lot less than I was. Downed you were down around six or seven hundred bucks and down around four hundred bucks in Caterpillar. I get it. That's all you can do and learn to live and fight another day. We both have earnings. So, you know, you're kind of looking at the ad of them in the next ten days, hopefully. Okay. All right, so at least it's today. We've been looking to put on a bond position. We've been looking to put on a gold position. I'd like to really just kind of get these done today. You've got bonds up significantly today, up one nineteen right now. You go TLT if you'd like. And you have TLT up. It looks like survey says. You used to say TLT. I'll give it to you right now. It's up $1.33. Oh, there you go. Sorry. That was looking in the right. How long you've been looking at this platform for? That's pretty good. Fifty years? That hasn't moved. That's pretty good. Yeah. That's pretty good. You're a lot prettier when you make a couple of dollars even more still down in the year. But you're pretty much better. Yeah. Lord help us if you ever get positive for the year. I know. Oh, my God. It could be a... You're usually just sitting in like a limp rag or something. You've got nothing to say. You're just getting beaten up like a hard step. All right. So, um, volatility in here. Good, bad and different. You tell me. It's low. Mm-hmm. I mean, there's no way to kind of beat around the bush. It's low. Yeah. It is relatively low. I agree with you. Is price at an extreme? Or do you think it's at an extreme? Yeah. I mean, it's up three percent in the last ten days, which... These are bonds. This is not... Tesla stock, IBM, or something like that. This is a big move. Yeah, I think so. All right. So, let's... What do you want to do in here? So, I was thinking ratio call spread or a strangle. And I want to do something in GLD also. So, in GLD, you already have a... A strangle. A strangle. I like one standard deviation, right? And I like my GLD ratio, spread, call ratio, spread. So, I'd rather go at the ratio spread in GLD than in GLT. Okay. Let's go to TLT then. And let's do a strangle. It's going to take a little over $2,000 in buying power. Since I'm a little bit bearish in bonds, and they're up... Well, TLT is up significantly today. Can we do it where it's a little bit skewed? That'll kind of almost make it like a ratio spread. You know what I'm talking about? Okay. Like, if we go to the equal distance away, or we do the same strike, like, let's look at the one where it's stock 132. Let's go 127. Yeah, 127 and 137. So, you basically go on $5 on each side. That's correct, right? Yep. Okay. How about we... That's going to be neutral though. That's going to be neutral. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, how about we go to the 136? Okay. Is that all right? Slightly. What are we picking up? Five delta, six delta? Yeah, nothing much. Okay. Okay. Okay. If you do that, do you want to move the put down? I don't really think we have to, but it's up to you. I mean, it's right at the 20 delta spot, so I think that's reasonable. Yeah, typically we would go to 15 on each side. I'm just taking a little bit of delta risk on the trade. Okay. Yeah. Sounds good. That's going at 168. You can adjust it a little bit. Okay. GLD. Let's go to chart if it could real quick. Because you want to do a ratio spread. I'm hoping that it has a better implied volatility IV rank. Well, it's 20 versus 29 on IV rank, but you're right. The IV percentile, it's 76%, significantly higher. Yeah. It's another one that, although it's down, you know, a point and a half in the last 10 days. Yeah, and the last 10 days, it's, I consider this a price extreme from what I've experienced. Okay. That's not, and this is what's so subjective about charts, and that's why I hate them. But I look at it and it just seems like it's mid-range, you know, maybe lower end of mid-range. But I'm okay with it. Like, you know, what's the, what's the, what's the three-month correlation? Do you remember the three-month correlation? Oh, the N-T-L-T is? They're both around a negative 0.5, which is basically 50, 50, half the time the SPY goes up. And the follow is in half the time and goes the other direction. Yeah. Okay. All right, cool. All right, let's do it. You want to do a one-by-two in here? Because you've had success with the one-by-two. Yes. But your father got you into those, and we were at price extreme. Well, my father got me into this entire game, so I mean, that's fair. At one point, do I own it? That's fair. Okay, you own this. All right. Give me the strikes. I was looking for the first one out of the money to go along on to the 118, and then short the 120's. About a dollar in credit. Okay. So you're really playing a little bit. So what's your thought behind this? Let's go in at one-on-one and just have it working. See what happens. What's your thought on this spread? Like why go so tight? And what, like, what's your... So give me your best case scenario for this. I mean, the best case scenario is a pin right under 120. Yeah, I know. That's where the next problem is. I'm at about 45 days. I'm talking about in the next week, week and a half. What would you like this position to do? I would probably want it to either stay right there or kind of move up slightly and have volatility contract a little bit. So 45 days to go, you're 100% correct. You want the stock to be at 120, you're short strike. That's the easy part. You're short and extra unit in here. This is, I know, a neutral, and you benefit from a 120, which is higher than 117 amp with a stock is. So you could say it's neutral to bullish strategy, but you have risk to the upside. If you have, if your risk is to the upside, you want this stock to go lower today, tomorrow, over the next 10 days. Because that short strike, that short extra unit on the 120 call, is going to lose money quicker. Maybe you can buy it back for 50 cents or 75 cents the whole spread, and then you'd be done with it. I mean, you don't want to wait 45... I mean, it's okay to wait 45 days to try to make $2, which you would probably manage at a buck. But it's a lot easier or nicer or cleaner to make 50 or 75 cents in a week if the stock actually goes a little bit lower. Okay? Yeah. Alright, cool. Let's adjust those prices, and then we can get these things done. And then I noticed in your account when James is doing that right now, in IWM, you're using a little bit of extra buying power, because we have two short units of all the ETFs. You can just cancel, replace that, go down to 106, and then you can go to 167 on the other one, and then he can cancel when we're done. We've only got about two minutes left to the show, if you don't get filled. I'd just like to see you get filled. In IWM, you're using it, it shows you right there around $40, $400 in buying power. If you were to go a couple of strikes out of the money, like maybe like 10 strikes or 12 strikes out of the money, like the 190 puts, and up to the 120 calls, and you buy one each of those. You've won straight in for 16 cents, won straight in for 8 cents. You'd probably save yourself about $1300. Now it's not something you have to do today, and it's probably something you'd want to do on an uptick with IWM going a little bit higher. Since we've reduced some of your delta already by rolling up IBM and rolling up Caterpillar, and we're looking to use more buying power now on these last two trades, and you'll adjust them by price to get filled a little bit more. If we get a rally, which is probably something you don't want, if we get a rally, I would look to kind of button up that IWM position. I say that because the puts are going to contract ever so slightly more than the calls will. If we go lower, you'll benefit by $$, meaning money in your account, and we'll worry about the buying power and IWM that if we have to pay up for the puts, we'll pay up for the puts, because net net, it'd be better for your account. Okay, cool. Still didn't get filled in these, so you're going to have to move them by at least to know what penny or so. Cool. What's that XLE you're trying to do? I think those are just deep out of the money puts. Trying to sell them back, $0.3. Eating like a bird poop and like an elephant. I mean, they do know a good sit in there. Even the S&P's down $16 and $0.50, Dow down $92, you're not as short as you think you are. Why do you say that? Because you're not really short that much in the ETFs, you're really short IBM, and you're really short Caterpillar. Your ETFs are pretty neutral actually. Yeah, unbaited way to for real quick, we got about half a second. Yeah, if you look at like IBM has a 58 Delta, IWM has a 55 Delta, the Q's have a 46 SBY, only a 28, for me, I think that's basically fine. And in those ETFs, we have four or five different trades in there, compared to the one trade in IWM. That's correct. That's correct. All right, cool. All right, so let's get one more day like this. Let's get a few more days like a couple days. Sounds good. All right, who goes up next? Got Tim Knight next. No peace. That says you don't look very masculine like that. Peace.
Video: 085 - Xle Jade Lizard 04 15 2016.mp3
Transcript:  You can go back when I start bad versus bad happy Friday to you. Happy Friday. How's it going? Not too bad. Kind of a weird day. Weird couple days in the market. I would say the same thing. Kind of slow, a little movement in some things. Golds, head a little bit of movement. Oil's head a little bit of movement. But really no volatility anywhere. You're down $1,600, $1,650, up $100 today. You've been up as much as $250 down as much as unchanged. Kind of $20, $20, something like that. You don't have to bet away to be bet awaying deltas around 300 or so. You're a little bit short. I notice your theta decay looks a little weird too. We'll talk about that in a moment. Yeah. I'm sure 320 deltas and SPY when you bet away everything compared and everything. We've gone through your account. You have one product, Yahoo, if you would for a moment, just open it up. If one in the money call spread here, you short the 33 along with 36. You do have the money to take stock in your account. Even if you didn't, if this was a small $2,000 account, you had a short in the money call spread on. You don't have to do anything to this. As long as both legs are in the money, they will cancel each other out. That's not like you take possession of the stock and you have to have the cash in your account. It just all goes away. It's basically an accounting thing in the back end. Now, you do have to watch out a little bit here because your 36 strike, it's 50 cents away, 56 cents away. So it's close, which would be a high class problem for you if we went below 36. So you have the decision here. Close it around $250, $250, $250, $250, $250, and the next hour or so before the market closes because it's cheaper for you, trading one contract. So just pay the commissions. Even if you have to pay over $3, like, 301 or 302, it's better than paying the $15 per in the money like $30 total for that spread that you have there. Okay? And exercise aside if you're looking to do that. But it's not something that we have to go to right now. I mean, like I can wait until towards the end of the day. You get done in a tenth of a second. So it's easy. You don't have anything else on there. I want to go to the Analyze tab if we could. And I want to take a look at that XLE position because if you notice, you're going to get rid of all of that. Yeah, sorry, go to XLE. If you have the right one up there, Pete, you do it perfect. Okay. If you notice you've faded decay in there of negative $49 and 58 cents, how can that be? It's that we have those two longs that are expiring today. They were part of a buying power reduction for a straddle that we had. The April 49 put in April 69 call. If you can unclick that for a moment and then just go to the box on the left there. Okay, perfect. Those two options are trading for a penny right now. But they're picking up the old price of 21 cents and 12 cents. Now your theta decay of positive $10 is real. So in your overall account, a moment ago, you don't have to go to it. But a moment ago on the monitor tab had a negative $50, $49,000 theta decay for this position and a negative 28 theta decay. We would like positive theta decay. And your overall position, that's a false read. It's just a bad read. So you got to go through all your positions and take a look at them. Yeah. Okay. All right. Since we're in XLE and we're talking about XLE, why don't we trade XLE because there's not too much out there in the way of high implied volatility, volatility unchanged today trading 1490. All right, let's open up the May options. All right. So in XLE, you're short about 50 delta. Delta is what does Delta mean? What does Delta share? Share, see relation to shares. Correct. So you're short about 50 shares of XLE at this moment. So this moved down of 82 cents is... It's helping you today. It's helping you today. Okay. And that reflects on your PNL being up around $25 in XLE. Okay. Do you look to roll up any puts here? I mean, you could roll the 61, but... I think it's not something that I... It's not. I have a 62 straddle right now. If you look at both the positions together, the 61 put in the 63 call or equal distance, you know, there you can... 62 would be a perfect number for you. You're 100% correct. You're 62 straddle that you have on. Theoretically would be worth zero. And the short 63 call and the short 61 put would be worth zero. 62, you are right. Your account synthesizes out synthetically is short two of the 62 straddles. And that's pretty good that you recognize it. A lot of people can look at things like that and extrapolate that out. Okay. Cool. All right. So that's why we say you're a little bit short. Delta stock 63, 360 got 35 days. What do you look to do? You ever think about doing a Jade Lizard maybe? I mean, yeah. Go on. No, it's a strangle or a Jade Lizard. You have two strangles, two straddles on now. You know, so why not? I mean, it'll give you a little bit of long delta, which is something you want. You got to stock a little bit lower. You still want 62, so it's not like a huge... It would give you a little bit of long delta. All right. So let's look at two things. We'll look at the easy one first and then we'll go to the Jade Lizard. All right. Let's look at the 67, 60 strangle. Sell the 67 call cell. You're going to go to the 58 side. That's okay. Okay. Sell the 67 call and go to the 60 call output. Sorry. And hold down the control key and both of them all. 60, you're one strike off, but that's okay. Oh, now you hit another one. Oh, now you're in big trouble. Just kidding. Yep. See? Click on the 60. There you go. Told you you're in big trouble. You're in a 60. We got a key. 67. Sell, sell. Oh, almost. Almost. You're going to get there. Not going to have to delete the whole thing. You have to delete the whole thing. Okay. Let's do the easy one. This is the easy one. Let's sell the 67 call and let's go up to the 60 put and sell that. You got to click on the bid. Ever so. One more. That's it. No. Yeah. 60 put. 60. Okay. Right here. Yeah. You know, down the control key, but I can add them all up if you want. So you're looking at about a buck 34. Now you don't have to do it. That's okay, right? Yeah. Right. 12, 1, 2, 1. Right. Right. Okay. Okay. All right. Hit confirm and said one time if you could. Just one time. Since you're using about $1800, I think that's really only going to be $1900 picking up each one individually because it's two separate trades. So it's $900 in buying power, not 18. Okay. The computer right now is picking up as two separate trades. So it's holding the buying power for each one. If you do this, one trade will be around $900. Can you x that out and just delete it? All right. No, you're good. You're good. Just got to delete. It's the one that's spelled D-E-L-E-D-E. Now you can minimize that little thing there. This is going to be the heart part. This is the big fake Newton part. All right. So, Jay Luzard. Short call spread. Short naked put. Okay. The call spread that I like to go, so it's a little bit, a little bit long delta. It's still a neutral position. You want it to end in between your two short strikes, which we're going to make sure that it's somewhere outside of that 62 level, but there's no risk to the upside. So you have short delta, kind of a decent enhancement trade. You're going to use around the same $900 in buying power. Okay. Let's look at selling the, well, let's see what call can we use. Let's do the 65, 66 call spread. So sell the 65 call. Okay. You can do that way. Sure. Change that to 66. Perfect. Okay. Now hold down the control key. You don't have to move anything on the trade page. Just with your big little finger there, hold down the control key and sell the 60 put. Okay. And hit confirm and send one time. Perfect. Using the same $900 in buying power, you max profits $112 instead of $130 some odd dollars of the strangle. Using the same amount of buying power. You break even, you'll notice there's only on one side, 5888, which is significantly below 62 what you need. It's not bad if you don't want any more risk to the upside in XLE. Okay. And it gives us a really sound. Wow. You really sound it. Sell this for me. I mean, it's tough to find anything to trade out there right now. So it's hard to get worked up on. You know what I mean? We have two contracts on an XLE, which is not a lot for you. We've had as many as four or five contracts on, but it's more than the one that we would like to have. It's two. I don't know. Doing the Jade Lizard kind of, you know, if we get a quick move down, it's going to hurt you. Yeah. But my other positions would help you. Would help me. But it's going to hurt a little bit. Yeah. Okay. What do you want to do? Do you want to do it? Do you want to do it? Do you want to do it? Let's do it. I mean, something different. You can find on the mid price. You can descend. Okay. Good. Nothing happened. I think I made a mistake or something like that. Yeah. I mean, I think I made a mistake over there. Okay. So what did we talk a little bit about? Oh, TLT. Can you just stay right where you are, Pete? I'm just going to TLT for me if you could. It's spelled TLT. Wonderful. Okay. Okay. You're short to 27 put and you're short an equal distance away call. It's using about $2,500 in buying power. So you can go as little as maybe 10 strikes or less away and free up about $16 worth of buying power. You can go to something like the $143, 120, about $7, 143, 120, and you would take your buying power reduction down from $2300 to about $6 or $700. Yeah. I mean, we're pretty close to 50% profit on this trade. Oh, are you on the old trade? We sold this for, I think, about $1600. $160 or $166 and it's trading around $1,000. Right now, a little further down. So you're thinking about maybe just trying to take it off as opposed to that. Yeah, as opposed to that. Perfect. Perfect. Oh, no, don't try to hurt yourself here, Pete. Don't try to put it up there. I don't just, you just confuse the audience. All right, so you have your J, you have your J, you have your J, you have your J, you're going to give you a little bit of a long dealt to your role position. We went over your theta decay and how you get a false read. It only happens during expiration. And most of them only happens during expiration. So go through all your individual stocks that you may have, unclick all those April options that are well out of the money. And yeah, you're a 85 bucks a day. No, so we had a little rally. Tiny bit. That's, you know what? That's also good that you recognize. Yes. Now if you can recognize it, down take that, be good. Yeah, that'd be great. We'll go up next. We got Tim Knight next. Hey, give me some love. Have a good weekend, son. You too.
Video: 086 - Gld Strangle Existing Positions 04 21 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Make your back when I start bad versus bad. How are you son much better today was today's been a good day? Yeah, a couple hundred bucks makes makes it different. Let's take a look at your count. You're up about Looks like about 450 bucks. You were up about 600 bucks at one point He may have some piece of only down 11 now. They were down about 15 A moment ago. You should expect that though when we start our show Yes, we get we get the market reversal for whatever we need We've been short for a long time. So usually right around two o'clock the market starts to rally To give back all of your gains. That's something we do. Okay, let's bet away your position real quick since we've got the a team With us today. Yeah, working the James back working the driver. Yes. Yes. You're short about 400 Delta's yeah short 100 Vega If all things being equal this was perfect the way we would want it not at market extremes Mm-hmm. Just trading you would look at short 50 Delta's short 100 Vega short 100 Delta short 200 Vega You say this pretty good. It's a little bit on the low end. You have a $30,000 account. We're about halfway through The expiration cycle you have 29 days or so to go $30 for a $30,000 account, which is what you have on entry is what we look for in theta decay It should be probably around 60 or something like that, but you know, Valetil is extremely low right now. Yeah, okay And you get that by Because it were almost halfway through the expiration cycle. So you think your theta Should be up a little bit. Yeah, it should get by about half or something like that. Yeah, that's all Yeah, just I mean, it's not rocket science. It's not absolute It's just a guide. Yeah, you know, that's a question that gets asked a lot is is you know, how much data should I have and so there's your Theta is gonna change. It's a dynamic Value and so you know when you start at entry and you have 30 You know that halfway through if things are going your your way you expect to see that increase That's correct. That's correct. I mean if the market's cooperating. It's gonna it's gonna increase Absolutely and also as you go along you're putting on more positions. It's gonna increase also You know that number changes in my mind when volatility changes too, you know You've got forward slash VX trading around $16.5 $16.70 it was $26. I'd want more you know for this environment. I think it's you know, I think it's okay Okay, all right, so what do we do today? Do you look to roll have you looked at your position to try to roll anything? I haven't looked at them. Well, you look yesterday right yesterday One dollar move in in the diamonds or buck 20 or It's not substantial. It's not it's not enough for where your positions are Yeah, we're a little bit deep in the money. Yeah, you're gonna need three four dollar range So there's nothing that's gonna change yesterday your rolls might have been 50 60 cents today. They'll be 35 40 cents debits. Mm-hmm. Not gonna move that much. Yeah, okay So there's nothing really to roll and if we stayed at this point right right here It probably wouldn't change much in you know 10 15 notes So there is a market state here for the role if the market stayed here, so you know, okay? All right So what now to guy add some more? All right, so let's one position that you have up there that represents You know two deltas and SPY is your GLD position So you basically flat basically flat. Mm-hmm. Let's add in GLD because we're not looking we're not putting on any more shorter deltas yesterday We tried to get short kind of miss the top area of the market, but we've sold a couple of top areas of the market that soon became you know bottom areas of the market a few days later So sometimes you're missing that's okay. It's okay. All right. Let's go into GLD trade page And then I want to talk about your EWZ position if we can then I want to talk about TLT puts cool All right GLD You already have enough positions in May, right? Let's go to June. Mm-hmm Okay, if we wanted to use the 1500 bucks or something like that in GLD, what would you do? I mean it the first entry point would be like the the 15 deltas, which would be a one-standard deviation um Strangle in here give it put an opinion in gold bullish bearers neutral I mean, I like that it's had two-sided markets. I want to go neutral on it I mean it's the volatility has you've seen up and down which is for your May position Do you know what's what's around the perfect strike for you? The 120 that's correct in your one 19 and so it all kind of fits. Yeah, it's right We're not going against your May position by doing a neutral. Yeah, you're not enhancing it You're not helping it. It's just straight away volatility in GLD. Let's go to a chart if we could just for a second It's not going to be great. It's had a little bit of an uptick in IV ranks a little uptick in IV percentile It works. Yeah, it's kind of a Listen, we you know, we've done a lot of calendar spreads. We've done some diagonal spreads We did some broken-wing butterflies like a one by two In gold so you know just trying to change your strategy with the market environment until you get the move that you Okay, all right perfect. Let's do it 15 strike on each side. You're looking at the 111 calls So it's about eight dollars away and We'll go to the 15 strike Okay, well, you're you're 11 dollars away if you go up to one twenty or your 10 dollars away if you go up to the one twenty nine one twenty eight You're called what do you want? Let's go tighter and to the one twenty eight. Okay, don't matter to me Dollar forty seven. Let's go in there and hit confirm and send one time Like I said, I throw fourteen hundred bucks user about fifteen hundred bucks in buying power reduction. Okay, it hits end All right, we'll let that work and then you could chain Got it Yeah, we got it. Oh, yes, you got your fill and then there's another fill in there too. Mm-hmm very good. Okay Okay, what what now? EWZ can we go to the mark? No Sorry I'm having a blank right now Yes, thank you. EWZ All right, so you did a trade on four six right in the middle of the page there You sold basically at the money straddle. I know it's two different strikes But it's a half dollar away We just went out of the money stock was trading right at twenty five and a half or so or twenty five and a quarter You did it for three dollars and fifty nine cents. It's now trading for around three dollars and fifty three cents three dollars and fifty eight cents It's a scratch. Yeah, it's been as much as a dollar loser. It's been as much as a dollar profit Yeah, when the when the volatility was higher It was still at like this 28 mark but the volatility was was pumping up the premium in those options Right, and so now that it's come in stocks at the same price only a few days have gone by two three four days Go to a chart of EWZ if you could yeah a couple of only a couple of days have gone by stocks at the same price But volatility's gone from around 90 to 50 you go from a hundred and ten twenty dollar loser to a scratch or a ten dollar profit and just because of volatility not because of stock price Okay, do you look as as like a gift from a gods? Do you look at it like yeah? Okay, a little bit. All right, so do you close it or do you keep it? I mean, it's definitely something I could think about closing You can also think about rolling it to June you could probably roll it to the June 26th strike Which still gives you you know the same amount of short delta. Let's just say your overall position Which it is short around a hundred delta's in EWZ if you roll it to the 26th strike and pick up 50 cents in credit You'd have about 80 delta's okay, so you're not really losing that much delta on it But you are rolling for a little bit of duration you are collecting a little bit of credit and going closer to that the money Never so slightly. I mean 25 to 26 with the stock at 28 and change Mm-hmm. It is definitely a little bit close if you if you look at 20 the 26 line here You're looking at a 29% probability being in the money. Let's go to June because you're bringing an interesting point June the 26 level is going to be a 35 So you know it's six percentage points. Okay more or less 50 cents more profit You can go down to the 25 and probably do it for even or a tinier credit like 10 cents credit or something like that I would probably default to the 26 if I rolled it at all. Okay, certainly can make the case for keeping it stocks at a price extreme Valtili's contract and maybe you get a move down you get a move down You know 50 cents or something that you'll have a hundred dollar profit in there instead of a scratch. Okay Okay, so we'll leave that on for now and okay, so people asked me yesterday via email and stuff and on Twitter, you know, which you know How about buying some bonds here if you think the market is gonna go lower? I said I'd rather buy volatility than buy bonds Luckily today bonds are lower for us with short bonds And volatility is actually creeped up. It's $16.75. It was trading around $16 and 20 cents or something like that last night when we get the emails. Okay, lucky call nothing Other than that, but I look at his pot odds like I don't know Rebons are gonna go I felt that volatility, you know eventually has to have an uptake just because it's been beating up so much I feel the same thing now about the overall market you have short 400 shares of SPY I would rather Sell puts in TLT that's an inverse correlation About 50% of the time over the last three months. Yeah to the overall market then sell puts in SPY Which would be a direct hedge in your portfolio? Okay, okay, so So first of all, I don't know if today's the day for doing it like if I was if I was looking to sell puts in SPY I am not looking to do it today. Mm-hmm. If I was looking to Sell puts in TLT because it has a 50% correlation To the overall market to give you some long delta bay could we go back to the beta-weighted position for a moment? Unbaited wait it for a second Your TLT position right now shows long 27 delta is now beta-weighted And it shows you short five Delta's an SPY so It's entirely up to you You know if the market goes lower TLT should go higher if the market goes higher TLT should go lower so Moving the same today then moving the same today The same way with gold you would think gold to go off to you we'd going down But everything seems to have around a 50% correlation which is the ones that used to have a much higher correlation 50 50 is not a good correlation. No, it's not no, it's not okay But it's better than a one to one like if you sold puts an SPY and SPY goes lower obviously those puts are gonna go higher I mean with volatility so low in TLT you could also think about call spreads You should have a call spreads you sure could I mean I'm just at a thirst for For theta, but you make let's go to a chart of TLT if we could for a minute We said I think the IV rank is around 16 IV percentile is 20 Yeah, you certainly you listen Certainly you certainly yeah, you certainly could do a debit spread I hate of all the trades in the world. I hate the 50 50 trade Like that 50 50 you know risk one to make one to me. It's it's just a tough trade. Yeah I'm not that good with direction today I'm usually okay with direction. You know this week, you know this month that kind of thing typically Okay, I said give myself time to be right or volatility contracts Hey, either one of them is great. Listen, we're running out of time I just want to give you food for thought. Yeah, you know You finally got the market down a hundred points today. I don't think it's enough. I don't think I do anything Mm-hmm. I don't think I do anything at all in any other products TLT or SPY I might think about closing EWZ or rolling EWZ And I don't mind the GLD position you put on if I had to do one if you're gonna make me say something I'd rather do maybe a one by two Put spread in TLT Try to get a little bit of credit on there. I'm always just looking for something better than that 50 50 shot or sell You know a closer put and a further out of the money call even though I'm bearish in my heart in bonds. Okay Okay, yeah, all right all right good job. I do you know Got Tim night next give me some love
Video: 087 - Earnings Season 04 26 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I think you're back when I start, Bevers is back. How are you son? Pretty good. Kind of an inside day. Kind of a weird day, right? A weird day, yeah. Yeah, you know, you've got the NASDAQ down, you've got the Russell up by 1% and ASIC down by 3.25%. And everything else pretty much unchains in the equity world. And then you got bonds down big. Oil's up big. Oil's up big. And that helps in your position a little bit there. Let's take a look at your account real quick. You're down about $135. Think about $1700 for the year or so far that you're down, fighting back. We have a beta-weightage position. Let's take a look at beta-weighting if we could. You sure about 350 delta is just the way it is. 364 delta's 63 theta. Do you ever happen? I didn't ask you today. I should have. I probably should have reminded you to now spring it on you and make you look bad. Did you ever look at what your premium over parity was? Well, you didn't bring in your homework? No, I'm doing it. It makes it pretty easy. Oh, so we have 1,200 extrinsic value. So you got 1,200. So we're low. Yeah, we're low. If I was looking for 25% of that would be about $300. Right. So we're a little bit low. So low volatility in the overall market, low volatility premium sold in your account kind of makes sense. All right, so we've got a couple of earnings plays today. You did one field order. Would you do there? I sold a put spread in the cues. Nothing pretty. It was kind of just a, all I have right now is in the money iron fly there that I've been rolling for seems like forever. And this was just kind of a delta hedge. I sold the 30 delta short put and then bought the wing just to cut down on the buying power. It's trading pretty much the same. You're using $900 in buying power instead of using a couple of thousand dollars in about $2,200. Right. Okay. All of the trades that you've done, I don't know if you've looked at the last four or five days, trades you've done, they've all been pretty much profitable. Yeah. You're not reaping the benefit of it because they've all been kind of. This small. They're small. They're small in their country to what you really want the market to do. Yeah. Okay. All right. So now you've got a couple of earnings plays. Also, do you know what? I forget who tweeted out to me and I should have given a shout out. I kind of forget right now. I apologize. Do you know what happened this day in 1973? No. How would I know that? This day in 1973, April 26th, first day of the CBW trading. Well? Yeah, first day of the floor. Okay. Yeah. Do you remember when your father got there? No. Very good. This point right now. My heart is breaking. Wow. I wasn't there when I had time. My heart is breaking. Yeah. I was still just a thought. Yeah, 1980. July of 1980. Okay. So about seven years after the CBW opened. So you know when your father left, the CBW. I want to say like 2004, 2003. Yeah, pretty close, like 2005, something like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right on there. Five or six, I think. Okay. Well, that's your history lesson. History lesson for today. Thank you. So what do you want? Apple has earnings. You already have a business. What are you going to do with Twitter? Open up Twitter for a quick moment. Has earnings. Say afternoon. Twitter would do nothing. We got a call that we sold as part of the whole. Get a buck 50 to make. Yeah. It's a lot of losses by 35 40% for the year. And would you like to see Twitter $20 tomorrow? Yeah, I mean, it wouldn't, it would be fine. Sure. Sure. The $18 $20 $19 all the same to you. It's a bullish position. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. Okay. So you've got Apple with earnings. I imagine that's where you want to go. Yeah. Let's take a look at a graph of Apple if we could for a quick second just so that we can kind of give it a little bit of background. You weren't looking at CMG. No. Actually, if you want it to it's just I don't know. It's one of those were that I feel like I get a lot of phone calls and emails about CMG. The options don't move much and they're not not extremely liquid. Right. Even when there's big volatility contraction, those options still trade the same price. Because the markets are wide. Yes. Yes. And you got to do a spread. Yeah. You've got to take in the volatility out of the trade. All right. And what do I mean by taking the volatility out of the trade when I say you're trading a spread? Do you understand why? The long option is going to counteract kind of some of what's the decrease in the price of the short. And so when you're trading a $5 wide spread in something that's $450. $450 stock, even if it goes your direction with volatility. With volatility, it's you're still trading a tight spread. If I had a hard. I'd love to enjoy right now. That was perfect. And that's not something we really talk about that much. No, a vertical spread, when you're selling or buying a vertical spread in high implied volatility or low implied volatility, in the case maybe your entry is the setup. Meaning you might be able to go a strike or two lower than you normally would. Let's say you're selling a put spread in high implied volatility. Then you would have high if you had low implied volatility. But you're not going to benefit the next day from volatility contraction. If you sold a naked option and volatility contracted, you would benefit the next day. That was one offsets the other. That's really very good. Okay. All right. So in Apple, 23% IV rank, 51%, IV percentile, good, better and different. Kind of indifferent. It doesn't really set up that great. Does not set up that great. We just talked about how you have only $1200 worth of premium. You need a lot more than that. You've got a lot of directional risk, which is short in your account. I think everybody in the world is playing Apple to the upside. It's down 6 and 3.25%. Let's just say 7% in the last 10 days. I think everybody's playing for a bounce here. I don't want to get hurt to the downside because I really, maybe I'm talking to myself into this, I think Apple's going to be lower. Then the market will be lower with it. So I think it'll be good for you and maybe good for me because that's what I want in my account. But let's not try to get too hurt in Apple if Apple goes to the bakery. Okay. Well, let's take a look. Let's go to the trade page. I'm going to take your consideration of your account. You're short around 300 deltas. You want the market to go lower. Certainly could sell a put in here that would compliment your overall portfolio. I'm going to look at a little something different and you tell me what you want to do. Now I'm looking at May options with 24 days to go. If you go to the right hand side of the screen for a moment, you're looking at implied volatility of 30. I would expect that to go down to around 24 or 23 tomorrow just because I think everything is a little bit inflated. You're going to get maybe five to seven voletic correction or contraction of volatility. I like that better than doing the weeklies. That's just me. Okay. Let's take a look at the May options and we'll see what this comes out to be. All right. I don't want to have any risk to the downside because that's where I actually think it's going. I have another side of me torn. There's not a lot of high implied volatility. So selling a naked put to me, even though I want this, I think the stock is, would benefit you being lower and we can use it for your portfolio. Just doesn't seem to make sense to me. Like I can't get the volatility contraction. So I got to do something with a spread. All right. Then I say to myself, okay, well, I'm going to beat myself up if we do go lower and I sell this put and just like Netflix and a few others that have gone lower in the market hasn't followed along with it. It's going to kill me. So I'm thinking about an upside butterfly, like a broken winged butterfly. That's not really long, but it's really kind of neutral. You've got what kind of expected move in Apple. It's actually increased a little bit. $4.30. All right. So that brings us to 408409 somewhere in that area, right? So no, I mean, adding $4 if we go higher. So let's say 109 or 408. What did I say? 408? I meant 108109. Yeah. 108109 to the upside and then 100 to the downside. Okay. So let's look at. A butterfly with 108 is our short strike. Okay. Okay. So you can double click on the 108 call because we're going to sell two of those. And let's buy the at the money option, just add the money option, the 105. Okay. So this is a ratio spread we've done before 105 108. I mean, a ratio spread we've done before. I'm just saying it's a ratio spread. It's a 1 by 2. If you do the 105 108, you're synthetically short what option? The 111. Perfect. So I'm thinking. And that's because it's the equal distance to the upside from the short. $3.00 on each side. 105 8's, $3.00 108 11. Perfect. All right. So what if we instead of buying the 111, we buy the 114 call spread. Oh, excuse me, 114 call. Okay. So we're buying a $3 wide call spread selling a $6 wide call spread. What's our break even on the spread? So the break even is going to be at the 111. That's correct. So we have $3 of risk because we're synthetically short that long. We can't be synthetically short that long, but yes. We're missing that long 111. That's correct. That's correct. Instead of paying, make that 114 call the 111 call. Okay. Instead of paying $0.44, we're actually selling that call spread, that extra $3 wide call spread to make up for that difference. We're taking on risk. How much risk do we have in this trade? Make it 114. Of the $3.00, that's correct. It confirm and send one time. That's your risk. Buying power $308, $300, we're just rounding. Yeah. Make even it says 111, but you really $1.1098, but you really have no more risk above that. Yeah. Okay. That's my trade, $300. What do you think? Let's do it. Okay. It's not a, it's not, do you want to see what it looks like in April? Before we do that, we change all the strikes from, there you go, click on that and go up to April with no days, whatever it does, two days, whatever. So it's a 42 cent debit. And, I mean, let's play the volatility contraction and go to May. I think so. I think so. I think so. So volatility was high. Then I would stay in the April options with three days to go. Okay, let's go with the maze. We'll go in at a, let's go in at even then he can change it later on. It's not the type of spread that's going to move that much. Okay. UVXY, can you go to a chart of it if we could and then we'll wrap it up. You get the Eminy S and P's down at buck 50. And you've got the NASDAQ down 32. Eminy S and P's down at buck 50. Eminy S and P's should be down what if they were equal to the NASDAQ? It's twice. That's correct. That's correct. That's $16. It's $33 on the NASDAQ. Oh, okay. I thought you meant twice. Twice. 15 is $16. I'm going to let that. Okay. So UVXY, $15.25. We know that the product has dragged to it. It's down 24% in the last 10 days. I don't really like kind of look at that number in volatility indexes. We do have forward slash VX. It was just under 16 a moment ago. It's 1609. That's the lowest. It's been in quite some time. Rally to $1 last week and now it's come back in. I think it makes up for an interesting setup in UVXY. Cool. All right. Let's go to UVXY if we couldn't trade page. If we're looking at UVXY, we don't usually sell, we don't usually. We don't sell period calls in volatility products. So June or May? What's going to June? It's close to that 45-day mark. Give ourselves a little time to be right. Give us a little time and we should have to start adding those positions anyway. Okay. So what put would you look to sell here? The 12. Sure. I want to get at least $13. I want to get at least $1. What I'm looking for. Very good. I agree. And is it a $15 stock? Do you have to buy a wing or anything like that? Yes. Because it's double leveraged. It is double leveraged. Plus go down to like the eight put or something like that. The eight puts for eight cents. I mean, the seven put let's just say you can buy it at two cents. It makes sense instead of using, even if it was single leveraged, instead of using $1100 in buying power, I'll only use three or $400 right now. Right. Okay. You want to buy the eight? Yeah. 115? All right. We're going to mid price at 115 and see what happens. And you can change it when we're done. Okay. Okay. Twitter. Last one. I'm not going to put a chart up of Twitter because you're right. Look at where it's been. It was around $14 when you played it for earnings. It's back up to $17 in change. Open up the may, well, stay at different moment. Here you have even more volatility contraction. 74% down to 58%. I'm expecting may premium to go from 74%. Probably to about 54%. 24% involved. Okay. What do you want to do here? If you want to do anything. Open up the may options. I mean, there's nothing we can do. Well, you're long, you long, you long a covered call. You certainly could put on another position. One. Yeah. I mean, it would be complimentary, right? I mean, I imagine. So if you already have a bullish position on, it's either another covered call, which I probably wouldn't do. You could buy a call spread and sell a put. You could sell a naked put. You can go into the weekly options. Okay. Okay. It's entirely up to you. Of all the plays that we talked about, Apple and all the other earnings that I actually think Twitter has the best going to a chart to adjust for a quick second that'll be done. Has the best implied volatility for what's going on in the market? 49% and an 82% IV% tile. Okay. So maybe you should check it out. All right. Can they disappoint again? I don't know. Do you think not? You would think not, but you know what? It's not like a, you know, just like any other rule that will. It's not just because it's black, black, black, black. Doesn't mean that it has to come up red next. I mean, it's still the same shot. Definitely. Who comes up next? Tim Knight-Nacks. Show me some love. Peace.
Video: 088 - Fb Calendar Spread 04 29 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back. Where do I start? That versus bat? How are you son great? Wonderful day. How come I got the eminies down so you mean SPs down 23 NASDAQ down 67 Russell down 16. Yeah, not a bad day for you. Not a bad day. Think look at your account You're up it says 325 dollars, but I want to remind you yesterday when we were on the show Your year-to-date was down around 1900 mm-hmm. So you're actually up around 550 600 bucks. What's happening is looks like there were some kind of crazy marks in your Amazon position there you're up $258 on the day in Amazon. That's not correct You're actually down about $60 or so. Yeah overall in Amazon I just think last night they picked up some marks in Amazon and it's kind of Sewing all the rest of stuff. So you're actually getting paid today significantly more than 300 around 600 bucks 5 or 500 bucks. You've made a couple orders a couple of filters. Let's see what those are we'll start the bottom Looks like you sold out. Oh, that's a vertical spread that we were long right? Yeah, we're long vertical spread Like three 15 115. Yeah, one 15-ish. Yeah, and you sold it 183. Okay, certainly stand. I remember took off some short deltos Yeah, you know, I mean a target on that would have been selling it. You know trying to sell it. Let's say 215 or something like that or two dollars or when you put it on but markets move things change Haven't had a down move more times gone by than you would have thought you know It's a risk one to make one kind of trade you were looking for a quick move didn't get it But you took off a profit. I like it just managing the winners at any time. Yeah, I WM It looks like you sold a put spread just to get some that's the same put spread that you bought the other day at 50 Some odd cents. Yeah, and then we sold a queue Spreads or at least you works out nice. Yeah, it does good And then you sold a string gold. Yeah gold has had a big move up to $17 today big increase in volatility I sold Just about the one standard deviation string I got a little bit closer on the on the call side you have some call side skew and gold So I want to strike in nothing fancy call side skew mean to you because there's more risk To the upside rather than than the downside perceived risk. So You know if you look at the options that are that are equal distance The put in the call options are equal distant from the current stock price You'll see that the calls are trading for you know 20 or 30 cents above What the puts are at that same same equal distance strike? So rolling that or not rolling but going to that closer to the money call is giving you a little bit more premium than it would if you were moving your put Up towards the stock price. So I was it was it would stop to if I thought you misspoke you're doing great So it was I mean, it's only it only gives me another like five short delta's is the 20 delta Call in the 15 delta put But it gives you significantly more premium. It's almost 40 cents more 39 cents more basically equal distance away Yes, very good and then the difference between the call to put that's awesome TLT it looks like you uh closed the spread there. Yeah, it's not filled right uh right before the show is one that I put on a working order in the beginning of the day for 50% of the max profit and got got hit and it's been pretty cool lately over the last couple of days We've had bonds down stocks down meaning even s and p NASDAQ and stuff down and bonds down You just had the bonds rally for the first time up 18 ticks you got filled I think when they're up around six ticks or something like that. So great great says about a 50% profit in that one. Yeah Okay, so you know you're managing your winners. You're taking off other things. We had a couple earnings trades I'll go to Amazon first you go to working orders. We can just show that up there Perfect You're trying to close us for 30 cent debit remember we match yeah, that would be a scratch We put it on for a sit for a 30 cent credit If you closed it for a 30 cent credit it actually makes 60 cents Remember when you're buying something somebody's paying you 30 cents and then all of a sudden you sell something and somebody pays you 30 cents You make 60 cents total So to close out 30 cent debit would be a scratch It's trading at around 91 cents and there's those funky marks. You see that point 918 you have those funky walks in uh In in Amazon. I'm sure they'll be cleared up by Monday, but so it's about a 61 cent loser at this at this point And then you did a LinkedIn trade you were right on both by the way Amazon went up But LinkedIn went up also. Yeah, so if you had for argument stakes bought a put spread in LinkedIn like you wanted to do and buy a call spread in Amazon It would have been basically a wash me a small Loss of profit one way or the other depending on how wide the strikes were I skewed you into That's SK skewed you into doing the The butterfly and we'll see what happens with that in Amazon still got 20 days off time We don't get filled here and you know you might see a move on Monday if they open up the Amazon again You you'd probably need Amazon to go to around 650 for this to be a profitable trade even though you're long a 10 dollar $6 move. I mean, oh, it's certainly it probably has a 90% some odd percent chance of trading 650 as it does you know six you know six 60. I mean it's the same thing. Okay And then LinkedIn was a full loser that was a put spread that you bought although LinkedIn didn't perform as well as everybody would expect up $2,020. Yeah, basically where it Closed yesterday that's right now and it's funny Remember what LinkedIn did right after the opening. Remember I want to do a one by two Which also would have been a small profit or scratch whatever the trade would have been I guess we did for a small credit so it would have been a small profit But the stock shot right up to that one thirty eight Yeah, that was a long strike so that would have been almost the perfect price for us But it didn't it holds it. So it doesn't matter no options trade After the market closes at three o'clock or three fifteen depending on what product you're trading You see these options moving that's just what what thinker swim does dynamically on the platform But there is no trading a lot of questions to then emails about people saying hey, I can trade stock in after hours But I can't trade options and after hours. I see the markets are moving I would like to participate. How do I participate? Options don't trade after hours. It's just dynamic a feature that toss does Stock you certainly can trade after hours about an hour or two after the market closes about an hour or two before the market Opens I don't know the exact times in toss all you have to change your order to Extended hours, okay, all right cool. Um, all right. So what do we do today? A volatility upticking is trading 1770 it's on the bucket of quarter So you can see your theta decay is actually increased. Can we bet you did beta waited perfect? You short about 300 shares of spy you got about 90 dollars in theta decay. That's actually grown as Your positions have gotten better because they do come more extrinsic value to them Your vague is a short 192 We'd like to probably see your if you were neutral on the market About a hundred short deltas and 200 short vague it would be about perfect So you skewed a little bit short still I think he did some things to take care of that. Yeah, if you look at your account You look huge you're basically flat on your long seven deltas If you go to spy, you know, you're short 30 some odd deltas you go to iwm That's the biggest one your short 61 deltas Yeah, I think you I call you basically flat. Yeah, I mean, I really do Maybe You really have if you unclick that for a moment just to dissect your overall portfolio you really have You know, you've got some exposure to gold you got ewz and and commodities you got the wz short 67 Delta's that stock seems to be on it on a tear these days all commodity related Oil which was trading a lot higher today although it's only down to cents now And goal trading a lot higher too and then you've got gold position which you just put on another one gets you a little bit short So you really need some of these commodities to sell off in the market to kind of Stay in this range. Yeah, somewhere between 2035. Let's just say we're 2050 right now 2035 to 20 60 mm-hmm that would be Nevada for you. Yeah, and the commodities come down a little bit. All right All right, so what are we gonna look for now? So you want to do something else? Yeah, all right We've got about five minutes. Let's go to a chart of Facebook if we could just to look at the ivy rank and everything else like that Okay, Facebook just had earnings a couple of days ago ivy rank is Much lower Stock I mean, it's on the higher end obviously 120 it shows there as a as a new high after earnings our research shows that once a stock has earnings Like this has a gap up usually me, you know, usually stays in that window. Let's just call it, you know 14 to 125 that would be doesn't usually retrace back now it can You see Facebook did it the last time it had earnings it popped up and then it came came down and then went back up again I mean it can I mean the probably just our research will be showing what are you bullish bearish? I mean, we were bullish on it For earnings which worked out well, so I mean you don't know that same direction. Yeah, okay sounds good to me Let's let's go to Facebook. Let's go to an option chain Okay, 21 days to May 49 days to June you got relatively low applied volatility. Let's look at June volatility is 27.8 and May volatility is 26 52 so there's only a one There's only like a one percent Vol differential between two opens up calendar spreads opens up diagonal spreads to me What do I want with the calendar spread diagonal you want volatility to do to increase to increase and you would want The stock to go to your short strike with 21 days left to May we can actually take a look at what this calendar spread would be worth If we fast forward and I've done this with you before yeah, if we fast forward the 28 days because there's 28 days Difference between May and June okay, you said you're a bullish. Let's open up the May And let's you only need the 10 strikes or something like that and make it easy for you All right, let's let's Go to June for a minute because I think it was only five dollar wide strikes in June so you're gonna have Okay, so you've got to do the June 15 if you were barrage you got to the June 20 if you're bullish So we're gonna do the June 20 we're gonna buy the June 20 call if we're doing a if we're if we're bullish We do the call side if we're barrage we do the put side So you're gonna buy the June 20 call and you're gonna sell the May 20 call Okay, and let's see what that's trading for okay around a dollar 45 can you just lock that for a quick second All right, so let's just assume that we paid a dollar 45 for this And let's just assume and I just to before you can minimize that for a moment Let's take a look close up June Open up keep may open stop for a minute um And open up April and give me just give me like two strikes or something like that four strikes So you can have both screens open at the same time Yeah Thank you Okay perfect. Okay, let's just assume right now that the stock is trading 117 Let's just say that that's 120 So because the at the money option is always going to be doesn't matter what the strike is It's the at the money option. It's gonna be the same look at the volatility on the right hand side maze 26 The front month is 12. It's expiring that means that May from where we bought it at 27 really hasn't moved hour Back month. Yeah hasn't moved. Okay, look at where the 17 Call is trading at in May it's trading at 285 The front month is trading at 220 that spread is trading for let's just say 260 The spread that you're buying at 145 in a perfect world without volatility expanding Stock going up to 120 We're just simulating that it's at 120. We're saying that 117 is 120 because we're looking at the at the money strike That spread will be trading for around $2.60 the difference between May and April is 21 days the same difference that we have between May and June okay, does that make sense? So to give you a reasonable Exhibition and how much this should make that's a perfect world. Yeah What would we look to be doing small trade? We'd be looking to make 50 cents to a dollar on the trade But you're only risking a dollar 45. Yeah, okay. Yeah best case Little over two bucks and change Reasonable expectation so between 50 cents and a buck 75 cents would be Nevada. Okay. All right. Yeah Let's put that back up there and let's send that order and we can be done Yeah, but it doesn't really have a max loss or max profit potential because well That's what the max loss is going to be the debt the debit if you well That's correct the max loss will be the debit you paid for it. You were 100% correct But there there is max there's unlimited potential if if you well It's not unlimited potential But there's no way the computer can tell you what volatility is going to be like so it can't tell you what your max profit is going to be That max loss saying NA is a little deceiving because if you didn't do anything your loss is going to be $148 by June A lot of times people will take this turn it into a vertical spread turn it into a long vertical spread or short vertical spread Then all of a sudden it changes you know your max losses not defined by what you paid for it. Okay, I sense yeah 145 dollar outlay Probably make probably look to make 50 to 75 cents Max profit would be something like a dollar 20 cool very good. Let's send that order Good job. How about you nice way to end yeah the week yeah definitely need a couple more days like this And you'll have a big smiley face show some love who comes up next got Tim night next peace You
Video: 089 - Comparing Volatility In Similar Priced Stocks 05 12 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start bad versus bad how are you son? Do well are you another solid day for me? Let's not day. Let's look at your account real quick if we can Yeah, you're up about 110 or 12 dollars you're up 360 dollars in your account an all-time high for 2016 which is nice. Let's bet away at your portfolio You're short about a hundred shares wrapped around a hundred shares 110 shares 66 dollars in data you're you don't have any May positions left to really that have any risk right now you have a may butterfly and GLD or something Yeah, you don't have anything like I WM SPY All out of May rolled already to June got a nice state of decay your theta came went from around $90 Hundred bucks to about 66 bucks. That's just by rolling as soon as you roll your theta case Go a little bit lower, but so is your delta also Your Vega is gonna change to you got 274 short Vega. That's about right. You're looking at one to two ratio between delta and Vega Okay, got some fill daughters. Let's take a look at those Looks like in gold closed out of a strangle. Oh, okay, was it percent? Oh nice? How long did you did you happen to notice how long it took you to make the 50% or usually takes around a month? Yeah, it was about 30 days. Okay cool back the order chains there on on doe good and then We bought wings to define the risk on those okay actually like middle of last week So sold out of those because I didn't need them anymore. So I took 12 Which pay from like 17 cents or something like that so it cost me five bucks just all Lower the buying power. Okay in in the future With like 30 some odd days left to go you're probably gonna trade GLD again Yeah, I could I could have left it on yeah for the 12th for the 12 cents or the five cents loss that you had I probably leave it. I'm just I'm just saying for the future six of one have dozen of another for the 12 cents You know I keep okay, and then what do you got next I WM? Well, that was a put spread that you that was like a rolled calendar spread Yeah, we did we started with the diagonal spread where we sold the In the money put or we bought the in the money put far out and sold the Out of the money put in June and then changed it in May I mean and then bought the one in May because it was cheap. Yeah, I wasn't working out rolled it for duration hell how How is a scratch? Oh, so it was okay? That's good So you took advantage of a little bit of a down move I don't think you caught the bottom of the down move you never catch the bottom you never catch the top But you scratch straight. I mean it had been trading Two or 150-ish. Yeah, 140 150 160. Okay. That's nice. That's a nice way of getting rid of some short delta When we go a little bit lower, you know kind of like buying into strength We're instead of like trying to put just something you know when it's going against you like Twitter that's going against you right now down 40 cents you have to roll down calls into weakness now which one do okay, and then XME that looks like a new trade Yeah, okay just sold a strangle some premium there you're anxious. Yeah, you're right I've got money sitting on the sideline implied volatility's high. It's a low price stock So use this for her bucks and buying power. I don't know. Okay, so we got an extra minute here just for a quick second This is sasnaf's desk and finette is desk during the show and we switch to my desk now you're now your desk So this is sasnaf fruit. Okay, he must be saving these two pieces For the end of the day or something like that. So there's nothing better We're gonna spoil that. Yeah, would you like some? Yeah, sure Very nice Organic very nice. I like a lot now. We have a little bit of energy in us and we feel a little bit better It's always nice to kind of P on the bush, you know what I mean like it's nice sometimes, you know, you don't usually get the opportunity to do that You know your world make it your own. Uh-huh. What do you got for us today? I mean, I want to put some trades on okay, what do you want to do? I mean, I think all the ETFs we kind of have reduced all of our buying power there So I think we can go back into into those but okay, I agree got volatility down 51 cents Yeah, that's forward slash VX earlier today was would have been trading higher was trading at sixteen dollars It's 15 to 11 now. Yes, that is correct. So what do you do? I don't know All right, so I look at it this way. I know you wanted to go into SPY and maybe you're a strangle I See the allure of it you want to trade you ready put on one strangle ready I don't mind putting on another strangle your buying power reduction In a lot of these ETFs you don't accuse 2700 that's your high SPY 2300 you know diamonds 1600 They're all kind of in line. We've had as much as four and five thousand dollars in some of these I'd one glaring thing like when I'm looking for a new trade that sticks out to me is the P&L that you have in GLD Mm-hmm like I don't like do you remember your GLD trades that you've put on that made you 500 bucks? Yeah, okay, you do I don't all right I don't know strangles and ratio spreads so let's take a look at a chart of GLD from it So instead of going into SPY or IWM Let's fire from strength you've been having good success there. Let's take a look at that totally down with that Okay, so most of our success has come from Right in in February like around the 19th when you see it started from there and it's kind of been range bound So that's why it's been working. Yeah, because strangles like a range bound high implied volatility now The IV rank here has gone from around 4050 down to 27 the IV percentile still 62 percent Let's go to SPY for just a quick second just to play devil's advocate Because it's around the same well SPY's now you can go to IWM go to IWM because it's around the same price would use the same amount of buying power IWM 110 GLD trading 120 something 17 percent 39 percent IV percentile and been going sideways the last month month and a half of that last February there we've come off the come off the lows So if I was gonna do one of the other right now, I think I go into GLD. Cool. I'm okay with that all right Let's go into a trade page of of GLD if we could and you're gonna look at June, right? Okay, so open up June You know what you can leave this page right there. Let's go into SPY for just a quick second So SPY You have Strangles on right and you have three contracts on IWM, please So you have that position on again if we were gonna go to look to do this position if we were to do another trade in in SPY We probably going to the same strikes again, right? Okay, IWM you have those positions on diamonds you have those position and In fact if the market were to close what do you want the market to do in the next 36 days? Stay right here in all of your products So that means if the market goes significantly south and in damage a little bit closer But it's significantly south or significantly further You're gonna have problems in each one of these all gonna be a little short on all of them You are a little bit short They all should move I know today we've had even ESMP is a little bit stronger and IWM was a little bit weaker But typically they all move in tandem with each other So there's not one that's a little bit more bullish a little bit more bear so For me right now, it's like Yeah status quo let's leave it alone. Let's go to GLD Okay, I just want to just say there's no fires to put out you've kind of rolled all your in-the-money options that you've had Okay, so what do you want to do in GLD? Typically we might look at that 15% on each side right? Okay, so the the calls are 129 you already are short the 128s The puts would have would have probably been on money around 15% of 115 you already have the 116s Yeah, so you certainly like for me Just because it's easier to look at I would probably just if I was looking to do a wide strangling here I probably just go to the 116 128 and just make it two contracts instead of one That's not for me. I know you're itching to get some buying power used I know you're itching to get some premium to use this looks like one of the The higher of the ETFs we have yeah, certainly one of the ones that's had the most movement Why don't you put the strikes in a little bit closer if that fits you like For me, I'm just a Johnny, you know, I would know that I would probably you know like I'd probably be selling that GLD Butterfly that you have on it's trading for around 40 or 50 cents because I'm not looking to hit the home run of $2 But you want to keep it on yeah, I'm a Johnny. I probably just do the 116 128 it's fitting you already took another one off from before everything's gelin. I'm just a Johnny But you want to go a little bit bigger right? Okay. What do you want to do? Um, why don't we go into like the 30 delta's okay? So you so you're looking at the 118 and then Take a long one 26 That's 125 and that 125 would be exactly the same yeah Okay, 245 credit. I mean the credit is what the credit is right and you can't do anything about that right? Okay, let's us to right where our other existing strangle is in terms of like break even points So you're exactly right one one 15 and a half one 27 and a half yeah, you're using two thousand dollars in in buying power Approximately the same as what you would on the strangle a little bit more because you're a little bit closer Okay, does this become a duration player? Is this more of a volatility play? I'm more of a volatility play more of a volatility play. I mean because you want to manage this 50 50 percent around a dollar Dollar 20 sure would you ever consider managing it quicker? Yeah, I mean it's a tighter premium play so So it's like a dollar 20 maybe like 90 cents 80 cents dollar especially if it came to that point Quickly in the you know if I'm looking at a 25 percent after a week or you know something like that then definitely Okay, so you can send that at a dollar 45 I'd like to look at a at a quick trade that you Really wanted to go into from the from the beginning, which was kind of like a one by two Yeah, remember you did a one by two in May that was two dollars wide That's how you've got this butterfly onto free that you have on in in in May okay Let's just want to show you how much volatility is kind of changed a little bit here. Yeah, um stocks 121 and a half You know, let's let's look at the would you want to look at the 123 125? I mean like where would you buy 123 call? Yeah, you could go there or a little change of strikes in a moment You got a little over a dollar And sell two of the 125's I Think we did the first Uh out of the money call You think we did the first out of the money call on a on a rally right? Okay, well the 123 125 is training for around 70 cents Let's go to the one twenty two which would be right at the money stocks 121 and a half 124 Stream for 87 cents you got a dollar Three or something like that. Mm-hmm. That's the difference and again I know it's 20 cents or 18 cents whatever it is I don't like I don't know if that makes a big difference But that could be the the difference between buying the synthetic Short option you're right synthetically short the 126 on the example that we have on the screen And not getting that 126 because the one by two spread that you originally did for a buck three Actually became a pretty big loser if you didn't get a chance to buy that wing for the same price that you had for the credit Received yeah, and you were able to do that credit received received pretty earlier after you did that one by two Yeah, like within the week I think right so one by two is really really sensitive To volatility contraction because it is a directional play even though it is delta neutral when you put it on Okay, so that's the reason why I kind of didn't want to do a one by two or plus I don't know go back to a chart of gold if we cover just a quick second. I mean is it at an extreme Oops, sorry you got a date no Life live chat Is it an extreme? I don't know you could say 124 being the high that 121 and a half is an extreme I don't know but to me. I don't have an opinion in gold you No, okay, so you don't have the you don't have the really high implied volatility that you would want a one by two and you don't have like In your opinion my opinion the volatility the price extreme that you would want to stock either All right, good job out of you you have a hundred and three dollars three hundred fifty one dollars for your account We got a market that's actually up a little bit So it's a new it's a new time for me. It's what's nice when you're off. It is nice when you're up. Who goes up next? You got Tim night next show me some love
Video: 090 - Cat Covered Straddle 05 16 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start members of bat how are you son doing okay? I think this is like the first time I've had a 20 point move and my account isn't Swinging like 300 or 400 dollars 23 dollar even the S&P move yeah Yeah, but I mean like the markets are everything's green on my board The E-Mines S&P's NASDAQ Russell Dowell of one one amp percent oil gold was up Yeah, see to be only higher to the upper dollar 80 right now. You're right. Let's take a look at your account real quick And then I've got one two three four five things I'd like to talk about today So kind of want to rifle through this if we can all right like you said you're down around 76 bucks $420 up for the year positive beta weight your position. I think you're short about 150 Delta's or so It's about perfect Delta Vega ratio one to two meaning you should about 150 should about 300 Perfect nothing really kind of out of line on your Delta. You know nothing really to kind of look at Too much in my eyes But there's always something to find can we go to the analyze tab if we can and you're trying to close good working orders I apologize You're trying to close your Baddie or trade that you put on for around a 45 cent credit 40 46 46 cent credit for one or two cent debit I would get a little more aggressive with that and save to 16 or $1700 in buying power I wouldn't expect to make much more than that especially without getting any type of volatility Expansion which is what you need in that trade To me, I think it's a death trade, but it worked out pretty nice because it basically is a synthetic short Strangle far out of the money strangle. I mean it's what works out to and you've made 40 somewhat sensitive It's actually a bigger home run than I expected so cool good job at you. Let's go the analyze tab You certainly could keep it. I mean yeah, you know what the risk is mm-hmm. Okay Let's go into GLD is that the analyze tab great Open up those price slices if we could Thanks, just make sure you got nothing in there would be great Okay, so in GLD using around $3500 and buying power. Let's just go to June on a day like today When the market's not going in the direction you want and volatility is contracting my head starts saying where can I save some money? And you can save some money by money. I just mean in buying power. You can buy the 140 Which is what you're already long yep by the 140 104 I guess it would be considered a strangle you can change the strikes a little bit if you want to There you go if you buy that one time you you save yourself about $800 in buying power Okay, yeah, I mean I was we actually I actually took those off on a previous strangle that I closed I want to say like a little bit like to work in cents something like so right so basically Do me favor going at 10 cents and You can change all these if you want to do them later on because I want to get to the a good trade after I'm done Okay, it's end I go in a IWM You can do the same thing in IWM you got a strangler a straggler out here We sold a strangle the other day. Yeah, it's like the 107 $14 the losing trade right now today But while till these contracted so much forchless VX VX is in well over a dollar it's in almost 6 and 3 1 1 1 I think if you buy the if you want to go to the call so I can do that one first the 121 And you buy the 93 put And again you can pick different strikes that you that you want to buy you save yourself around $1100 Can you unclick it for a moment? I should have showed everybody what it was it was $3,300 in change by Giving up 12 cents, which I don't really think you're giving up anything by giving up 12 cents You change that from 3,300 to 2,100 Okay, let's go in at 11 cents. I think it's significant savings Again, you can do what you want to do cool. Okay with the market higher. I hate chasing stuff. Let's go in cues But I think you gotta stay a little bit mechanical. We don't want to get into the situation of the Delta risk that you had before Going to June just open up June for me. All right, so you're short about 62 delta's in June. I think if you roll if you look at like you got a 96 put that you're short It's trading for 17 cents. I don't know. It's not helping if I did the other two Freeing up so much more buying power. I would look to sell the 102 96 puts bread You could argue about going a little bit Closer, okay, that could be entirely up to you if you can open up the slices That changes your delta by about 10 or 12 or so. Okay, I certainly can change it by a little bit more by just going a little bit closer You are using about six hundred dollars worth of buying power So I freed up around 1900 2000 and I'm using 600 Let's go in at 48 cents or something like that and you can decide whether you want to do that trade or not, okay? All right TLT we've been leaning a little bit short and you can stay right where you are We've been leaning a little bit short in TLT. We're using about $1500 you got 33 33 deltas in there not a lot Thaded a K of around four dollars not crazy, but TLT You don't have to go to it, but you can see it on the right hand side there the implied volatility is 13% It's been low. It's low. Yeah, that's why we're not getting paid on it right now You're right, but compare it to the S&P 500. It's about the same. It's 15 and the S&P 500 I Don't know what that relationship should be the the distance between them, but it's awful tight right now Now it has gone inverted where TLT has been higher than SPY, but it's not the norm Okay, so if I had to make a trade and one or the other I probably would default to TLT just because relative to the overall market It seems like it's a little bit higher. Okay, okay, so in TLT Staying with kind of that bearish stance the first thing I looked at was looking at you don't have to put up James I was looking at a dynamic iron condor which would be selling The 20 delta call and buying the 10 delta call and selling the 20 delta put and buying the 10 delta put The put would be $3 wide and the call spread would be $2 wide and you're really collecting around 68 cents Not bad for $2.70 to $2.30 worth of risk But not enough for me for 32 days to go. Yeah, so I was looking at something much wider since we're already short to 133 calls and it is around that 30 delta and that's something we've been wanting to we've wanted to do and we have done We sold the 133 and you can put this up James sell the 133 143 call spread It's the same exact call spread that we sold previously at a dollar two hold down the control T control key James and we'll sell a put spread Below that meaning we'll skew it ever so slightly so Like going to the 20 delta on the on the put side or well the 20 delta doesn't really give me enough because you're right at that like 127 I think we have to go to the 128 to be honest with you and I was gonna look at the 128 121 And that's gonna give you somewhere around a dollar 80 dollar 79 Okay, incredible and using about 800 bucks 20 bucks worth of buying power. Okay, let's go. Let's go in a dollar 81 and you can decide Whether you want to do that trade or not so we did GLD or looked at GLD reducing buying power IWM reducing buying power Q's getting some long delta to a slightly short portfolio TLT adding a trade that's pretty much delta neutral But you're already leaning a little bit short in TLT. It's my opinion which makes it I don't know what you mean that TLT is a better place to be volatility-wise than SPY or anything else right now You had a trade in catapillol that you want to talk about let's do that now. Yeah, you can go to trade page All right, so yeah, it's one of the few stocks that we've got relatively higher Range of implied volatility. Let's go into a chart of TL of CIT just so we could take a look at it 49% IV rank 57% IV percentile it has stage strong. It's already had earnings It's down eight and a half percent in the last 10 days. You're looking for long delta This certainly looks like a contrarian play. I think that's you're going to the long delta side. Yeah, what? So I was looking at either a Jade lizard or like a Covered straddle type thing sure It's kind of tough because you have the two and a half point wide Strikes right now, so it doesn't give you a whole lot of options So set them up. How do you want to do? I was gonna go with the 67 and a half put And then the classic short put on its on its own 30 delta high implied volatility if you bullish on a stock Certainly works. Go ahead and then the 62 or the 72 and a half 75 Call spread. Yeah, the problem with this is you have two and a half dollar wide strike So you so that yeah, that leaves you with 50 cents of risk I mean we could go to the the 70 put which would give us like the typical Jade lizard With no risk to one side with no risk to the upside, but you know, it does You don't prefer missing one time on this closer So you break even on this is 67 dollars and 19 cents. Let's go change it back to the 67 and a half And your break even is gonna be a little bit lower than that. Mm-hmm It's about 65 and a half dollars. You do have upside risk. Yeah, your upside risk is limited by 50 bucks. Yeah I don't know for the $1200 in buying power like Like again, if this was How much conviction do you have in caterpillar? I mean, I'm just playing the Concert inside to I mean it's a premium play and it is I agree I risked the 50 cents and I probably go to the 67 and a half. I don't think it's the classic It's obviously not the classic Jade lizard type trade that we make, but I wouldn't be interested in going Closer to the money with the 70 put and having no risk to the upside. I okay. I know. I kind of like it Cool. Let's go with that. Okay. Why don't we go in at two dollars and three cents the markets look a little bit wide in there Uh, and then you can change it. Yeah Then even if we get tested on and you got to stock up 90 cents to yeah getting a little bit more for the call spread But the put has a lot more delta in it. It's not the perfect. Yeah, you know, setup the stock was down 90 cents and volatility is expanding even more You know, I guess you could make the argument for going on, you know, even closer to the money But I would yeah, I had to fall to the higher probability of success Roll that put up to we have room to roll that up if if we're getting tested on the call side. Yeah, that yeah You right you could like if you if you're getting If your call spread is going into the money you could roll that put up to Call spread going in the money is going to actually be a high-class problem for you because that call spread You know as well as I do the closer we get to expiration even the week of expiration that call spread never goes to parity Yeah, Monday Tuesday of expiration with the stock over 75 dollars that call spread is still going to be trading for A buck 75 you know a buck 80 it'll be a profitable trade You want to buy you want to rally you want to buy back that naked put for pennies on the dollar. Yeah Gonna be a hard trade to manage at a 50% profit because you're really gonna need the stock to stay inside a tight range Over the next couple of days. Okay. All right. Good job out of you. Yeah. Okay. What do you think about the trades that we put in the queue there? Do you think that you'll do some of those or move some of you gonna make a surprise? Yeah, I think so no, I think I'm gonna do it I might hold off on rolling up the queues Keep the direction that I have it. I don't know if I want to pick up some long delta into a 23 point rally in the in the e-minis You have to do a DNA test on you. I know a little bit more size nothing. I know. I like the risk Show me some love who comes up next. Got him night next peace You
Video: 091 - Turning A Ratio Spread Into A Butterfly 05 18 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start that versus bad. How are you son good great day so far? Why is it a great day? I've closed some positions taking some profits. Let's take a look at your account and see what's going on That looks like you're up about 160 or 70 bucks depending on where the e-mail and some peas end up going To the account up there Services I should probably get this out of the way while we're while we're waiting for the surprise show to come on two o'clock. Hey, the man Why do I have to give this to you? We had a bet that It's my ten bucks now. We had a bet that the butterfly that I closed today I said if you can close it for over 45 cents. I said 55 cents It was trading for around 50 cents at the time Yeah, I would pay you ten bucks if you didn't sell it for more than the 55 cents you had to give me five dollars. I gave two to one odds It's called hot odds out there and you were able to sell it today for 70 cents. That's the middle order Yeah, now my argument is going to be you've got gold down 12,000 change 1264 when we were talking about this trade of 50 cents gold was trading more it around It was it was a couple bucks GLD was trading more at around what price GLD right now today is trading at well very close to your short strike Just call it 121 trading around 121 50 to 122 no no it was trading around 45 cents was trading at 123 Okay, yeah, GLD was trading more 123. Yeah, you needed the stock to go down to 120 for the perfect price You have the stock at 120 60 yeah And a week's gone by which should be good for the butterfly because the butterfly contracts as time goes by But expands as it gets closer to your to your short strike your short strike as the 120 so that's at the almost at the perfect strike That butterfly is expanded from around 50 cents to 70 cents So it was the perfect storm for you two days left expiration and it's and it's gone up by 20 cents I Think closing in at 50 cents was still the right thing and I want to show you to this whole exercise You got to watch it because of the extra $10 be you get to watch the whole thing was just on a risk reward basis Now if you kept that trade to the end and you sold it at a buck 30 or buck 40 or buck 50 Then I give you total props waiting to make the extra 20 cents with days left to go You're Johnny just like your dad. Wow. Let's go to the month That's your let's go. Yes, you are which is which I'm proud of by the way Yeah, I am very much. Let's just go. Go ahead. Yeah, I mean my thinking on it was that I didn't have I didn't have any risk built into it Besides what I had already gained let's let's go let's let's go on that and then yeah, you're exactly right you put this trade on Originally, I think it was a four five down at four five down at the bottom It's the last trade for a dollar three. It was a ratio spread. It's It's a bearish to neutral spread. You have no risk to the downside. Yeah, actually that $2 probably the first out of the money option there correct when we put when we originally put it on your Your 100% correct and if you go up a little bit more on the naked option that you buy It's just two on up to on 414 you buy that one 22 call for a dollar That's because you are synthetically short that call right 18 20 22 makes the $2 wide butterfly Which is what you end up with so you had this butterfly on for a three cent credit Let's just call it for free. That would be called a free butterfly and you did that in a relatively short period of time so Great trade. Yeah, okay You forget about the strangles and everything else and the verticals and everything else up to that We just go to the top of the page now those are all the other trades that you've put on in GLD GLD's been one of your best Performing yeah products this year so far and now you sell that whole thing for 70 cents Good trade or bad trade good trade. Yeah, I think it's great. I think it's a great trade especially With GLD if you want to go to a chart of it. Yeah, I mean after you put this on on what was it four five or something like that? Yeah, yeah, GLD has done nothing but go straight up I mean it went from where you put the stock on we've trade on around one seventeen and a half one eighteen Like you said first trade out of the money all the way up to one twenty three without a down tick So you're completely directly wrong. Yeah, so at some point if you didn't buy back that call You would have been scrambling probably gone inverted and it becomes a nightmare. Yeah That's pretty good. It's a good job. Yeah, okay. All right, so I think a good exercise and kind of like getting a free butterfly A lot of times we'll do it on our site people say what do you mean by a free butterfly? That's how you got it a free butterfly. All right, so what are we gonna do today? I know you covered if you go to the field orders for a second you Just covered your TLT. I'll start at the top for 51 cents. We sold that at like a dollar two Okay, so you made exactly 50 percent 50 percent. Okay, they're relatively short period time I think two weeks or so right? Yeah, I mean you've got you've got bonds making a big move down I mean down over two and a half points and you rolled up your NEM probably a little bit soon Yeah, a little bit soon all things being a considering what happened in the last hour or so only cost you ten fifteen cents by Rolling it too soon by the way, so it's not like it's a huge thing But yeah again every ten fifteen cents counts and that GDX same thing there It's just rolling up the put perfect perfect. We had tight strangles in both of those you're rolling small Incremental products to your overall delta. Let's bet away your position in here. See what's going on Okay, so you basically fly short 61 delta's you were short around 30 delta's when the E-mini S&Ps were down around 10 They're unchanged exactly right now. You got volatility down five cents Valtus has been down all day to get done about 60 cents So actually a volatile a little bit high markets unchanged where you go to now Like I look at TLT since you closed your trade and I know you said something very similar what you did in SPY Yesterday you've got some buying power that you're using more on the put side in cues in the cues Yeah, it's kind of tough to look at it now that I mean because when I when we were earlier in the day when the NASDAQ was up you know 20 25 points. It's up 15 right now. So yeah Yeah, okay, so why don't so why don't we look at both sides on the cues? Okay, yeah, but we can sell a call spread that maybe is a little bit wider Then the put spread and not use all of the buying power. Okay, okay? Because just like yesterday you have an you have an extra short put spread. Yeah, we have a $10 wide put spread that you used as a Delta hedge Which is probably a bad trade. Yeah, right now. It's down, you know 20 30 cents But we're using it as a Delta hedge. I mean, it's sure it works with the whole the position as a whole and not just by itself Yes, you're up $250 or $204 for the year in the cues So that one spread may be losing money But the other meteor bigger part of the portfolio is actually made money for it. Yeah, even in the cues Okay, so what are you doing the cues? Do you look at Ivy rank or anything else like that in their first or you just go right to it? I mean it's low and it's been low But it's one of the products that I feel like you always have to have a position on and because it's a major I mean it's a major major part of the market. I mean it tracks the whole NASDAQ so it's Yeah, I'm getting exposure to everything there. Yeah, yeah, current Ivy rank is around 14% it's relatively relatively low, but I agree with you. I mean It's not free buying power. It's about as free as you can get. I think you have to do something there too Okay, so you're basically flat the cues right here. What do you do? I mean we can go to the 30 Delta On the call on the call side. Okay, so let's because we want to maintain some short Delta Okay, so do you want to sell the 108 so the one of one of nine's? I'd rather go the 108's gonna be perfect by me. Yeah, the 108 call. Okay, so what call you gonna buy you said you had $10,000 worth. So let's go to 108 118 just just to prove that he's right and hit confirm and send one time There's a $10 wide call spread and you'll notice the buying power effect is zero So that means the computer's picking up some risk on the downside your risk isn't equal You have more risk the downside than you do on the upside and that's from a lot of those Dynamic dynamic dynamic I agree with you. Okay, so erase that please or just X out of it and You can leave the 18 call but we'll change that in a moment. Can you just minimize the order book? Okay, great Okay, so what put do you want to sell? If you're selling a 30 Delta put do you have a conviction one way or the other you a bullish bearish neutral? I mean My positions are neutral, but I would I would like to get a little bit of short Delta Okay, so you're selling a 30 Delta put call so like go to the 20 Delta Perfect so is it the 101 or the 100? Let's go to 101 okay, so you go to 101 so you pick up around 8 to 10 yeah I'm not crazy, okay, and if you're selling the 101's now Every strike you go down When we click it in a moment here. That's how much buying power you're gonna be using on the spread Okay, okay, so you go 101 how far down do you want to go? 5 bucks Okay, so you want to go to the name six. Yeah, okay me personally I go to the 97 but I know you hate that just because you're short one of those Yeah, it doesn't do anything it just Starts making all of your positions more condensed. Yeah, meaning you know like on the same strikes It doesn't matter me. It's it's it's fine. Okay, he confirmed it said one time You know, notice you're using 371 dollars worth of buying power. That's the credit received Plus the five dollar wide minus the five dollar wide Put spread that's because the call site is already accounted for and the other put spread that's you're 100% correct So we're really only we're Evening out the the risk on both sides, but we're that put spread is adding risk You're now you're now taking the risk from from a from a thousand dollars on the put side to five hundred dollars on the put side Okay, so if you wanted to you'd be able to sell another call spread that's five dollars wide without using any buying power Tricky you're good Yeah, now I'm good when you were down twenty five hundred dollars. Oh, I Wish you have night. Yeah, what would you say to me? Yeah, I mean I would just call you loser or Johnny I mean you're still a gentleman call me a loser. You would call me a Johnny you would say I stink Yeah, yeah, you do stink sometimes. I don't know how you supported the family for thirty five years You would say stuff like that. Mm-hmm, right? Yeah. All right. What are we gonna go in a dollar twenty seven dollar twenty eight? You get a rally you get filled a dollar twenty eight if you don't get a rally you never get filled all right Think of one twenty seven there. We go and get Get filled okay price. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, go ahead and volatile is actually up 13 cents right now. Good Almost says you need a little bit of a rally I mean SPS down three NASDAQ up eight so you didn't as that to rally just about two points or so Okay, next thing that I would look at let's go to a chart of TLT if we could We're just about running out of time You coverage a call spread on this big move down yet a short call spread, which was nice It was totally your idea of course always you got an IV rank of 10 IV percentile of 14 Do you know yeah, do you look to do anything in TLT? I mean I've we've got two iron condors in there so I'm pretty set with our positions there But I totally don't think this would be the time to get short with a with a call spread or something like that It's just not the ideal time on a big move like this I Totally agree sit on the hands and I totally agree with you wait for the next one I totally agree with you and you actually could change the strike on your call spread a little bit because we went all the way up to the 18 you probably could go down two or three strikes and pay one or two cents more for the call and save yourself another Four or five hundred bucks if you don't get filled on that you can adjust the price down and the strike down Okay, good job out of you today show me some love who comes up next? Tim night next peace
Video: 092 - Turning The Bat Ears Into Bat Wings 05 23 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Nick you're back where I start bad versus bad how are you son awesome awesome want to give a shout out to my guy Ross fresh coffee roastery my home away from home Lawrence Kansas for the nice coffee sent me for an early birthday gift May 31st for anybody else so on Tuesday right yeah we'll be open yes yeah long weekend and then Tuesday we're back well I'll have to plan something yeah big party big party birthday cake yeah we have a little we'll something that goes on with birthday cakes around here so we'll be we'll be happy to watch my back let's take a look at your account because it's added a count high for you right now yes for the day and for the year to date you're a date you're up around uh sixteen hundred bucks and for the day you're up two hundred and seventy eight dollars that's that's a big move yeah it's amazing what a sideways day will do for your side is weaker to yeah and you've you've had some directional luck to you had some directional bad luck name that's some directional good luck which is nice be with your account you're sure to hundred deltas your date is good at ninety three bucks on a on approximate thirty thousand dollar account and you've a good to I mean yeah you're good to go and be you're right where you want to be now what because you got to keep the number of you are just going I mean you're making money across the board right now the only thing you lose a money and it looks like vxx and STX storage technology I mean you yeah STX that's a small one I mean that's okay so let's go up to the top of your screen for a quick second here um you've got this apple trade on we've talked about it uh I don't know for a long time now since you put it on a double day diagonal correct yeah is a basically yeah double ratio spread sorry not that double that ears the bad ears um we finally have single strike price uh single strike uh yeah single strikes in the back month why don't we look to neutralize that and then we could put on a couple of trades I'm going to ggdx I've got two trades feel when you pick one of the two uh Facebook calendar spread you can talk about GLD and TLT if they if it keeps rallying right now bonds are up six if they go up to like 1012 maybe we sell something with a closer call spread than a put spread TLT although the volatility is very very low do it in July let's go into apple a a p l um I've you ranked out the bottom if you want to go to it I think it's around seven percent or so go to today's options statistics uh there you go seven percent right there in the right in the middle so it's relatively low you're buying premium you're buying the wings I just think it's prudent cool okay yeah so on the put side you would look to and again I guess the put side would be the least in the court side right five cents ish so you're gonna be looking at would you along the eighty seven and a half puts so you're looking at two dollars lower yeah two and a half dollars lower so what put would you buy try go to the eighty two okay I mean that's why you know you go to the two that's three dollars I mean but uh yeah you want me to do the math eighty two and a half I'm talking I'm thinking on the call side on the call side they don't have half strikes I've all I've looked into this all day today because I was part of my okay plan for today all right so what are you gonna do on the call side on the call side we'd probably have to go to the 103 and give us a 50 cents a risk there agreed agreed okay so you've got about 34 cents that I think you collected around 46 okay so you'd be taking all of your profits that you have neutralizing the overall position getting the fourteen hundred dollars in buying power back and locking in a ten cent profit let's just round or you do nothing and you keep the risk on both sides I wouldn't be worrying about the downside too much right now though you never know what can what can happen yeah and the upside actually looks like it's not that much jeopardy either so it's entirely up to you you've taken off some trades already today that fed up a lot of buying power you took off a GLD strangle that used let's just say two thousand dollars in buying power you took off an XLE iron condor that was only three hundred dollars worth of buying power and then a EWZ basically a naked call which used let's just say a thousand dollars worth of buying or see free it up three or four thousand dollars already yeah what do you do here I think I would rather just buy the wings here and I can give it a chance I tend to agree with you let's go into 34 cents and get it done great okay yeah let's go into GDX GDX to me maybe you can find others that are as liquid or more liquid and a higher price stock but I think it has the highest implied volatility on the board if you want to go to a chart of GLD you can James you already have a good size position good size two or three contracts in a good position right now it is really right where we want this is where you want it you got a 24-strand goal or us 24 straddle and then we have the 2325 ratio spread put ratio spread so 24 25 is the perfect number for you yeah 100% you've got a good IV rank of here 62% good IV percentile 65% you want to look at something in July yeah okay let's go with the same kind of theme we'll close up June and go to July so I was thinking of one or two trades we did a lot today on talking about SKU if you looked at any of our archives from today it was mostly your towards SKU GDX actually has SKU to the upside to the upside meaning the commodity it's a commodity base right yeah it's a stock 25 dollars you know you go down two dollars to the 23 puts their dollar excuse me go down a dollar to the 23 puts their dollar 30 you go up a dollar to the to the 25 or even a 26 calls which are two dollars out of the money they're trading for one 14 one 13 so you can see the little bit of SKU to the upside as opposed to the calls you go down two side two dollars to the put side and you look at ninety four dollars there's 20 cents worth of SKU to the upside that makes out the money calls a lot more expensive that makes a one by two call spread if you're neutral to bear as you have no risk bullish you're okay up to your short strike you know if you're basically neutral and GDX which is what you have on the top month it's decent complimentary trade so I was looking at the 26 28 call spread one by two I'm gonna buy one 26 and sell two 28 if you are more bearish you certainly can go closer to the money I'm going a little bit further out of the money you do have 53 days about 13 cent credit that would be the one suggestion I would make or if you want to play it neutral and it's the highest volatility on the board and you know your Jones in for more premium in your account you could look for a strangle you can't go to one standard deviation yeah you're gonna like the 20 delta ish 20 delta or closer I was gonna take a look at the 26 22 which brings you to about the 30 delta okay and you're collecting a little over two dollars two dollars and six cents so those are your choices okay how about this put that in do me a favor put that in it like two ten hey confirm and send and send knowing we're never any a filled and let's send the one by two also and let's do it for a higher credit like a 16 or 17 cent credit you have the buying power in your account so freeing you know using it is not that big of a deal while we put on the trade well the 26s would cancel out oh I don't want you to do both trades I'm just gonna put them both in and then show is over and then we just cancel yeah I just so we don't have to decide at this moment yeah 20 cents is fine okay you can decide which one you want to do okay okay and doing this water will cancel your other water yeah because you have the overlapping strikes okay well then just cancel that one for now I'm so sorry that's something that they've changed in recent years we never used to yeah yeah you mean you think you could route a sell order in a buy order at the same time for the same strike that makes sense right yeah yeah could you could yeah I'm not even a year interested in this is how you're doing yes you could would you like to bet your birthday present on it no double or nothing no I get a birthday present yeah you get a birthday present all right all right so um Facebook FB so I haven't traded Facebook today I haven't traded in a couple days in my own personal account Tom tells me he's getting filled right around mid price with volatility being basically unchanged today in the market doing nothing maybe there's a plane here on a calendar spread in Facebook bullish bearish a neutral in Facebook I mean it's down pretty big on the day and we've had some success playing it towards the upside so I wouldn't mind going it's had direction sure it had earnings a little over a month ago around a month or so ago our research shows the stock goes sideways to stay inside that range of where it's been and it's certainly held true over this last month maybe we get a little goose up to the 120 okay IB rank is relatively low there's no skew between July and June July has a 25.10% implied volatility and June has a 24.5% implied volatility so you're not paying anything in my opinion for this time okay okay let's see what they're trading for let's go into the July or the June whatever I'm sorry we're buying the July 120 if we're gonna do the 120 do we do calls or puts just to be a chemical why because we normally don't start with in the money it's corrections that's correct we always go to whatever's out of the money that's correct and since you have five dollar wide strikes here in in July you'd you'd really only be choosing between the the 120 calls or the 115 puts that's correct so that's correct and you're selling July it's hard to see sometimes with the expiration if it gets a little there you go I'm sorry you're buying July and you're selling June dollar 33 debit you want to go in right at mid price sure let's go in at mid price see we get filled we don't get filled we'll move it up a penny and go to 34 okay we didn't get filled you'll move it in two seconds yeah okay only the other thing I want to talk about is bonds let's go to TLT you have a pretty flat position in TLT let's open up June for quick second yeah I think we have two iron condors in there one oh no you have two you're exactly right oh I'm so sorry okay so you've got one one at the 33 line that one at the 35 line is almost like having nothing on right yeah okay and then you've got two sitting at the 128 and the 127 as you can see by the by the probably being in the money you put your little bit closer to your to the money than your calls yeah right they were so we got a little bit of long delta not a lot but a little bit of long delta in something that's had a volatility contraction yeah okay I think if you wanted to do anything in July especially if you get a rally in bonds bonds are up now right now you could look to either buy a put spread sell a call spread in July as opposed to June or roll down that June call it's entirely up to you okay okay yeah volatility in here I'm not gonna lie let's go to trade page before we have to go a lot of volatility anywhere really there is not a lot of volatility anywhere I'm sorry let's go to the charts I apologize yeah you're looking at a 7% I don't know I would probably default to rolling down the calls in June and not adding any more buying power to the position or do nothing okay yeah I'm pretty flat I like I like where I'm at overall that's fine yeah listen there's no arguing with the way your your account has been performing so you're good to go yeah all right good job out of you you too have a nice weekend yeah I did you do anything you want to share with the class I had a lot of fun I had a lot of fun who comes up next
Video: 093 - It S Fun Making Money On Your Birthday 05 31 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm Nigger Beck bevers is bad how are you son doing well and happy birthday to you. Thank you. Thank you How old do you know? I'm a tad I'm past that quarter century mark Yeah, I know it's tough 26 still haven't found sunscreen yet. No, no So first day of the season you know you gotta get out there base tan Hey, let's see how your base account is doing base tan Looks like you're up around 350 bucks. We just sold off a little bit even the S&P's are down 11 NASDAQ's down 11 also and bonds are up 10 And you're up around $1400 so far for the year to date. Let's see if we can get that up on the screen survey says Bat versus bat show There we go. I did not expect this when I was looking at the the tape this morning I did not expect to be where we are right now, which is great birthday present bed bird. Yes good I mean let's knock on wood and good keep it around here You've got one field order. What'd you do there? I closed out of a diamonds We had an iron condor, but I have a Left over one four one eighty nine long call it had No bid so you can't close it so so it was an iron condo, but it was and you close it for a dollar 45 dead But we don't sell usually iron condors for dollar 45 so it was kind of probably a synthetic strangle Yeah, when it was a roll trade probably actually started with a put spread And then we ended up rolling that put spread kind of into strength We actually rolled it down for a small credit and then went ahead and sold the call spread against it because we weren't using any additional Buying power and it was it was a wide Ten point wide iron condor and you've got a small year-to-date P&L That's positive in there when we've always been negative in there, which is which is kind of nice. Yeah, okay All right, let's bet your only positions are already beta-witted You're still short around 250 delta's in there and you're collecting nice That's as high as like 320 this morning. Okay, so then what do you think we should do now? We've got a little bit of a down market you've got NASDAQ down 11,000 change not a huge down move But you took off something that had short dealt in the diamonds. What do you what do you think we should do? I mean, I think we should add a new position on in there start a statement. Yeah, our new Okay, let's go in the positions. Perfect. Let's go to an IV chart. Let's go to chart and take a look at the IV Well, we're in SPY you can see it's 10 and I think it was going about 18 or something like that an IV percentile 21 the IV percentile here in seven. It's low. I mean, there's it is low. There's no way around that Okay, so what do you do? I mean, I would go to like 45 days, perfect 25 days Our diamonds a core position for you Some of you have trade all the time. Yeah, so I mean I always stay in not the best of the of the four right I don't know if it'll liquid of the four. I mean, it's still decently liquid product But I mean, you'll see two three four cent Bit-ass spreads in there. So a little bit harder to get filled the night WM SPY in the cues. Yeah, okay agree also uses A little bit more buying power just around the same as spy. I mean, it's more in line with that price ranges around as opposed to I WM or the cues where they're not close to a hundred dollars closer to two hundred dollars or eight I'm just using more. Okay, so you're short delta you're doing good today I'll tell you to uptake the little bit although not a lot. So what do you look to do in the in the diamonds? $2,500 for a strangle that you know on top of What you're thinking so I would go with Probably a directionally long like a put spread or Even like a jade lizard if we want to go I mean we do have buying power sitting on the sideline So we could go there, but I would I would probably go with a put spread rather than Doing both sides like a dynamic iron condor or something like that because I want to get some long delta Yeah, a dynamic iron condor won't get you any long delta, but it will sell a wider put spread Which keeps you very flat. Yeah, you know, so as you rally You know that put spread is so much wider it contracts just as fast as that call spread kind of goes up Maybe even a little bit faster. So a dynamic dynamic iron condo wouldn't be a bad idea low-employed volatility You mentioned the jade lizard Also the same type of strategy is the iron condor or the dynamic iron condor which you talked about Which is also another good one the only problem with the jade lizard is it uses a lot of buying power Which we already discussed okay. Yeah, this is the quandary. I don't know what the right answer is when we weren't We don't we don't really discuss the show beforehand But I was actually looking at maybe just selling a put spread in the diamonds, but a wide put spread Like I was looking at the 70 Put which you use around $2,500 and then I was cutting in half. I was going to like the 152 put to buy 151 is fine to it doesn't it doesn't matter you can keep it either one doesn't matter if you hit confirm and send one time Use about $1,700 instead of you know $2,600 25 and change In buying power that was you don't don't send that just exit out that was my thinking Just to get some long delta. It's gonna be about Half as much long delta in SPY as it is in diamonds pretty much the way it works out to be and then I thought maybe we would roll your cue position Okay, and that would give you a little bit of long delta to all right, okay. Yeah, do you want to do that? I'm certainly I'm certainly Happy with doing like what you said more of a directional iron condor It's not dynamic meaning selling a put spread that's closer to the money than your call spread doesn't matter to me. I want you to do it you want to Well, let's start with the put spread we can always go and if we get a rally we can always sell a put spread to strengthen diamond and roll something else is what I'm thinking Yeah, okay, let's go in at 116 and if we get a little bit of a down move We'll get filled if we don't you move it can we go into the cues? And you're gonna have to go into June and I picked the cues for a couple of reasons It's one of your higher buying powers like like SPY, but you've got a unique thing here. You've actually have four short deep four short wide put spreads versus only two In the money wide call spreads okay, so your unbait-a-weighted Delta in the cues is short just about a hundred okay, so how do you roll this is my question to you? Well, you'd probably have to do the calls first Okay, but you do two calls and four puts now you'd probably have to go two and two Yeah, yeah, no, no, I'm not saying like how would you do it practically meaning like yeah? You'll have to do it like as two separate orders your role the calls and then roll the puts but we eventually roll all four puts Or will you only roll two puts versus the two calls probably only keep two okay to keep it balanced rather than keeping that those four Directionally long positions against two short positions. I'd rather go to two and two Okay, and I and I agree with you and when you roll just by looking at let's go to July for a minute you let's just say you're short to 108 strike If you look at the 108 strike here You're you're at a 40 Delta put pretty much you're at the at the money put yeah, so if you're only gonna do two contracts And you're gonna roll you'll probably I think you will I mean the way I would do it is I'd probably do the same call spread And then I would do an out of the money Put and I do half as much and you'll find that you're gonna collect more premium because obviously there's more time Mm-hmm to go and you'll be saving buying power For me up till the upticks a little bit. So you'll be taking on four units. It's all about reducing the units Mm-hmm. You'll be taking out four puts Versus two puts and you'll be collecting a little bit of premium. Okay, I want to go. Yeah, let's do it. Okay, so let's go to the call side first And we could put in all the prices and then you can change it later on if we have a chance And we're running out time. Alright, so let's do the the 108 let's do the strikes that you have the 108 114 Mm-hmm. Okay, so by the 108 sell the 114 and then in July you'd be doing what? To those same strikes sell the 108. Yep. Okay, and by the 114 And you can do that for about a 39 cent credit. Let's go in at 39 cents Like we said, you know these mid prices on here use about 500,000 buying power click send now using that extra buying power because It's establishing a new position because right right once you roll those puts you'll get that buying power back All right, let's do the call side again on the other side And you didn't get filled on your your diamond juts are assuming the market's rallying a little bit. Alright, so let's do the 109s And I don't know what other call you have back there. Okay, let's do the 116 Might as well just leave that one right it's trading for a penny. So was it nope? Was it like it's got a it's got a penny bid so yeah, you're right You just leave it as well very very good. So let's just buy the 109 call and then we'll sell the 109 Good catch We'll sell the 109 call and by the 116 so you're establishing a pretty wide Strangle here is really what you're doing with the call a little bit closer. Let's go in at 66 cents. That's fine And again, you can change all this later on choosing notice six hundred dollars in buying power now. Let's go to the put side Okay, so what do you do here? So you'd probably roll One of the one of the one oh the one oh seven and then one of the one oh six Yeah, I mean you could roll to it. It's really I mean Yeah, how you do this one doesn't really matter that much especially trying to roll the other side Let me explain why if the market goes down You're gonna get filled on your call side of it if the market doesn't go down and you put a bid in on the bid of the puts You're gonna get filled on the put side So you can almost just put a bid on the put side and hear me try to buy the 107s one time Buy the one oh six is three times on the bid and then when you get filled on the other one sell two put spreads in July Okay, you're not filled on the call side you got to get kind of aggressive on the call side rolling it down Okay, cuz then we wouldn't have those those puts there in the front Exactly, and what you're not that delta exactly and what you're trying to do is you're trying to establish like The market kind of dictates what you do so like right now You're basically on the offer of the call spread and you'll be on the bid of the puts when the market moves one way or the other You buy something there on the theoretical bid and then you'll be hitting the bid on something else You know, okay, so this way you're not kind of hung out there The only thing that can happen to you when you're doing these kind of things is You get stopped. Yeah, and instead of moving it by two cents or three cents You say I'm not gonna move it at all and then the market gets away from you and you're in a bad place. Yeah Well, that's and that's when you move it a couple couple pennies and and then a cramp you inevitably always do it at the exact wrong time Yes, of course, all right very good. Good job out of you and good job out of your account too. Yeah, happy birthday Thank you. Thank you. Come up next. Yeah, Tim night next show me some love
Video: 094 - Buying Back Itm Spreads 06 01 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Thank you for back. Where do I start? That versus bat? How are you son? Dude, okay. Don't we had him this morning? You and Tom saw us off both. Yeah. I thought you were going to have met us. I got a little bit of a cold if you've been listening to the show last couple days. I'm going to have his cough drop. It's going to be fine. I'll be able to talk without- I'm a really proud of what's to have you. You'll be able to hear me really good. I'm just kidding, but I do need the cough drop. Even the S&P is up $2.50. You're down around $24. This is about the most you've been down all day, right? Yeah. 24 out of $2.00. I was up as much as $200 when the eminies were down 9-10. And now they're up to 1.5. You're down about $3.00. Beta weight of your position already. You're short. 280 deltas. You only short 153 Vegas. So we've gotten shorter over the last couple of days. Okay. And we have been diligent with your roles and everything else like that. Yeah. I think today's- I can't- have you found anything that has high implied volatility to open up a new trade-in? No. Not really. Does somebody have two compelling things, right? You can always find a few of the pot ashes of the world. Yeah. That's some other junk. Yeah. It's not- I'd rather you should capital right now until things kind of perk a little bit more. In the positions that we have kind of your core positions, right? Which are really the ETFs. You know, SPY, IWM, Diamonds, Kios, whatever. You did get filled on two trades. Let's take a look at those. Yeah. First one you did was XLE. Yeah. That was an inverted strangle that we've been rolling and managing for a couple of months now since February. It started off as like, I want to say the 61, 67 strangle. 61, 65 strangle. And then we've been rolling it and going inverted and we rolled to a straddle. It's been one of those that we've managed for a really long time. We actually ended up making money on it. Well, you're up three hours. That was $4 for the PNL for the year in XLE. So it's good to do okay. Yeah. Yeah. And it doesn't have to be that- Volatility has come in and I close this when you had to oil down, you know, a dollar-ish. Earlier this whole thing. I really hit it. I really hit it. At the best possible time. I'm probably saving myself about 50 cents from- Maybe a little bit more. Maybe a little bit more. Right now. 470 and change. Yeah, good for you. Good time. Yeah, listen. Sometimes you hit it right. Sometimes you hit it wrong, right? Yeah. I mean, it's time and price. You got two weeks before expiration. So you're looking to on a trade that you've been like massaging and working and you were inverted on. That two week window before expiration, 45 days to the back months, you're looking to take it off or roll it. Mm-hmm. So- This is the time, yeah. Okay. So we could go back into XLE if you want to. TLT, it looks like you closed a strangle that you had sold for, I don't know what price. Yeah, it was an iron condor. It was a wide iron condor. Almost like a- So it's almost like a- Yeah, I think it's a triangle substitute, right? Yeah. With the one 21 and one 43 puts on there. So- 133? No. No. 143, the longs. Oh, the longs, so there's about $10 wide. So it really is a strangle substitute. Yeah, those calls are, they have no bid, so- And you close it for just about 50%. Yeah. Okay, awesome. All right, well, staying in that same theme of looking at things to do and looking to roll things, I think we have to look to roll things too. Can we take a look at just for a minute? Could we go to a chart? I want to just run through the ETFs for a quick second. Go to DIA. Diamonds we sold are put spread in yesterday. Not the best IV, the matter of fact, extremely low. We talked about that on the show, but you need to delta some place. You're taking off a trade in the diamonds. That's only a position we have on in there. That's correct. So that's actually helping you a little bit today, because that's some long delta for you. All right, let's go into QQQ. QQQ is up around 4.5%. Also low implied volatility for almost 5%. Let's go into SPY. And that's 5% of the last 10 days. SPY only up around 3%. In the last 10 days, same type of low IV. And let's go into IWM, because this has been the trouble product for you. And for me too. Yeah. Now this one's up a little over 6%. So it's up the most out of out of all of them. The highest IV. It has the highest IV. It's the one that we've kind of taken the most directional risk in. You're short about 100 delta, 115 delta in IWM unbait-a-weighted right now. I think we've got to do something about that. Okay. All right, let's go into the trade page in IWM. There'll probably be half as much beta-weighted because... Yeah, a little bit less than half. Yeah, right around there. Yeah, because you're looking at stock that's half the price of... It makes sense. It just makes sense. And the vaults will be the back of the hand. You can think about that. Sure. Good job. Let's go into June. Open up. I think you can need a couple of more strikes. Let's see. Yeah, I might as well open up a bunch. I think you've got to put laying down there like at the 106. Oh, there you go. I'm sorry. I probably had enough. Yeah, that's short 106 put. It's nothing. It's not doing that helping, right? Yeah. I mean, it's a position that we would probably rather close and roll it. Well, when you roll it, you are closing it. You are closing it. So it's the same thing. If I buy the 106, whatever, put your lung there, 106, 103, puts bread. But what that Delta is probably like a 10 Delta? No, it's about a five or something. Well, in July, I mean. Oh, yeah, yeah. Oh, no, I don't... I'm sorry. I'm saying like rolling it, it's not like giving us a lot of Delta. I want to roll a lot. I want to roll. Yeah. I don't want to roll to July. Yeah, no, I'm on the same. Okay, good, good. I want to take that June 106 and move it all the way up to maybe like the 13 or something like that. Yeah, because even if we had that in July, it's not going to help. No, do anything to us. No, the same strike would not help you at all. I totally agree. So let's sell the one 13 put. Yeah, that's a lot. That's like our 13 Delta? Yeah, the 13 put? Oh, no, okay. We're just closing them out. Yeah, yeah. It's going to be like 20. So you're going to pick up around 20 Delta's. Okay. Now, I don't really think that that's enough. Okay. So just James, keep that. Just change it from single order to blast all if you want. I'll show you how you can do this at one time and just minimize it. So we're buying that one 13? No, selling the one 13 put. You can open up again one more time. I think we had it at buying. Did we not? No, it was red. Yeah. If it's red, it's always going to be at a final price. Yeah, there we go. Okay. So using takes about 800 hours of buying power. You're only rolling up for 57 cents. You're staying in June. You're not going into July. Yesterday we rolled from June to July. A little bit more of an aggressive roll. And we sold put spreads, you know, against it. So I want to do a little bit more like in June because I want to have a little bit more of the directional risk in June. Meaning if we roll to July and we get the down move that we want, the options aren't going to move. Not going to move as much as we. That's correct. But I want to be smart about it. Because you have a nice PNL and we do need to get your deltas in line. We want to get your deltas at least almost one to one. So we need to get a little bit more long delta. Okay. So I'm thinking we buy the June 1316 call spread. So I'm looking to actually to not increase our units. Close stuff and still give us some room to be right. Just load buying the 1316 call spread. And I'll explain to you for what I'm doing. Okay. Just look at the bottom one. The buy. The 1316 call spread is trading for $2,040. What should break even on that spread? It will be about... It could be exactly. Yeah, 2, 1396. No, you're thinking too. It's so funny because we are rolling up. If you get about rolling up what it is. Just look at the spread as a new trade. Okay. If I buy the 1316 call spread, what's my break even? It's going to be the $2 last the short call. Right? No, no, the long call. Yeah, it's so funny. Everybody makes sense. Don't worry about it. You made a common mistake. And it's not from lack of knowing. It's just from always looking at opening a trade and selling something. So if I'm selling something I must be minusing it. You're buying a call spread here. Yeah. You're breaking even on this is the 13 call plus the... The debit you paid. Yeah, it's $2.40504. Yeah, it's $2.40504. Where's the stock trading? $0.1504. Where's the stock trading? 70 cents higher, let's say. Yeah. Just about 70 cents higher right if you're rounding. Okay. How much are we rolling that put spread for? $0.57. They're basically the same amount of extrinsic premium. Okay. Because you're saying that... Because my break even is below... Below where the stock is trading. Now, that call spread has $2 in risk in it. What does the put spread have in risk in it? Significantly more, right? Yeah. Because the spread is almost $8 wide, right? Yeah, it's got $5.5 worth of risk in the put spread. Put spread, right? I'm going to take you back to Kansas, son. Five. Okay. No, okay. All right. Six and a half. 50 cents. Yeah, six. Yeah, six and a half. Okay. You want to understand? Yes. Okay. So, a lot of times people say, hey, you're buying that call spread. You know, you've got $2 worth of risk. Yeah, but it's still 70 cents below where the stock is trading. So, it's a high probability theta positive trade, just like the put spread. They're exactly the same trade. They're very similar trades. My break even on the roll up is right at $1.13. My break even on the call spread is $1.15. That's the only difference. To find risk of $200, to find risk of $6.5. Same amount of credit. Okay. Almost give you the same amount of deltas. I think you should do both these trades. Okay. All right. Why don't you, let's see, that one, 204. Let's go into 205. You can give it 204. He can change it later on if you want. Go into 204, it doesn't matter. And let's click on, and the 56, just, yeah. Perfect. That's perfect. Pick and send and send. Looks like you're getting a fill down the one. And usually about $800 in buying power. You can do that for a minute to have for a quick second. And you can tweet out how your Greeks have changed. You short, unbate-a-weighted for me. You short about 114 deltas and IWM. I can't believe you enough filled on that one yet. Any there, Evan? Well, the call spread looked like it was, the puts were the way you should have been filled. Maybe we get a little downturn in the Russell. All right. So how about this? Do you have the analyze page of their James? And analyze duplicate trade. And you'll see exactly what all your Greeks and about. I was hoping you're going to get filled. Do duplicate. Analyze trade, sorry. Pop up one at different page. Dory, then just sell these. Just change. You can go down by a penny and up by a penny on each one. We'll cost Nikki two cents for getting his math raw. Yeah. Shame on me. Shame on you is right. All right. So you just get filled at two or five. Love the ding. Probably the high. Don't you though? Yeah. It is really one of the most fulfilling things you put in order. And in you hear that ding, it's like, yes. All right. Close it up. We can see how everything changed. Before you baited away, you were short 114 deltas. You're only short 66 deltas and IWM. Before you made the trades, you had about $10 in theta decay. Now you have around almost 14, $13.80 in theta decay. Now, bait away to form if you could. You went from around 80 something, right? It was around 86 if I remember correctly, to about 47 in SPY. And you increased your buying power ever so slightly by about $800, $900. Okay. Still a little bit short. Still a little bit short, yeah. 240 deltas versus 160. Yeah. You should be looking for another 100 deltas. You want to look at SPY? We have two of them. Sure. Let's go to SPY. Because that's the other one where you have 100 short deltas in. I think our overall position is a little cleaner in SPY. It hasn't moved quite as much as IWM. And we rolled a little bit in SPY. All right. So in SPY, let's go down a little bit further. I think I saw $199. Yeah. Let's buy that $199 put. It's the same kind of thing. It's 26 cents over the next 14 days. I get it $2 a day and they did the cable. It's not going to help you at all on any type of move up. And what put you on the cell? Go to the 205 or 206. I mean right there. I go to 206. I want 100% agree with you. Cool. Training for around 77 cents. I will work this one and mid price you what happens. Oh, you're going to get out. No. So close. Let's cancel replacing and get it done so we can just see how the Greeks change. And we can have some fun. Cool. Beautiful. There it is. And SPY, you went from around 101 or so to about 83. You picked up around 25 delta's. 20 delta's pretty close. And the manufacturer, if the market moves, you know, it's going to change by about 57 delta's on every $1 move in SPY. Not even the S&P's, but SPY. It's just your gamma change. All right. You're good to go. Yeah. You down 16 bucks. You still feel okay with your position? Yeah. You need to get, well, not you need to get, but we're looking for more trades. Yeah. I know it's not easy. It's tough. It's tough. I mean, calendar spreads and diagonal spreads are not. They don't do it for me. They don't. I know. Once you get bitten by selling premium and you see how, I mean, I know we always say it, but until you do it, you can't realize it. It's so nice to be directly wrong and not lose money or make a little bit of money. When you're right, you make 2X and when you're wrong, you lose 1X. And you didn't get to experience that the first couple of months of this year. No. So it's nice to see it work. Yeah. All right. It comes up next. Yeah, Tim Knight-Nacks. Some love.
Video: 095 - Rolling Inverted What Strike Should I Choose 06 02 2016.mp3
Transcript:  You're back. Bat vs. Bat, how are you son? So continues the most boring week of trading I've had. It has been boring week, hasn't it? Yeah, it's been just flattened. No volatility, no nothing. It's been very boring. Mm-hmm. Give me many years of days I've had like this. Probably a lot. A lot. Yeah. I can't say the majority of the time. This seems to be an exceptionally long low lately. But most of trading is really like looking for a trade, setting it up, and then... Watching the patreon. Watching the patreon. Yeah, it's sometimes it's okay to do nothing. Yeah. I don't want to do nothing today, and I know every day I come in, I'm looking to do stuff. But it's okay to kind of tweak your strategy a little bit. Let's take a look at your account if we, if we could... Put up on the screen. Perfect. Count low for the day, down about 70 bucks. You were up around 70 bucks with the EMS and P's down around five or six, and now you're down about 70 bucks with the EMS and P's up two and change. But you're still up $1100 for the year. You beta weight your position, you got 265 short deltas every day. I love it. I love it the common area. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's James haven't fun over there. Having some fun. Sure. You short 260 deltas. Yvagas 153. Did you happen to take a look at your account at your delta when the EMS and P's were down five or seven? I think I was around 200. Yeah, a little bit less, like one of you at 200. So I don't know, we've done a lot of rolling. It's probably the prudent thing to roll, meaning either bring the position into July or leave here. But you know what, I'm going to look at something a little bit different if we could. I want to roll your and take a look at your STX position. Yeah. So STX started out as a 19, you know, a trade page, a 1920 strangle. Yeah, with the stock right around 19 and a half. It was basically a straddle. It was basically, basically straddle. And we had done it for like about a buck 60 or something like that. That originally something like that. Something like that. Yes. We've rolled up the put side, rolled up the untested side. We've rolled it. We did for $1.83 and then we rolled up for $0.44 from my notes here. So you have about $2.27 in here. If we had done nothing, you'd be down around $250. You're down about $160 right now. So you save you some $100 by rolling. Doesn't make you feel any better, right? No. I think you have to stay with the same plan here. So what strike would you roll up to if you weren't rolling to July? The 23. I mean, you could go to the 23 and a half. Yeah. You could even go to the 24. If you wanted to go fully inverted and kind of throw in the towel. Yeah. And let me explain why. So if you, yeah, please do. Thank you. So if you sell the 24.21 put spread, you get around $0.80. All right. You had almost $3. So you've got, sorry, you had almost $2.25. $2.25. And now you do it. I'm full with all the rolls. Right. Now you do it for another $0.80. You're looking at it. It's a scratch. Well, no, it's a small tiny winner if it's in between there. No, $3. Oh, because we have the $0.20 call. Yeah. $4. It's $4. You'd have a, let's just, let's just say a $90 loss versus $160 loss that you have today. If you go to, let's just go to it. And I should do the math just because you go to the 23 put, the one that you originally had said. It's not going to be that different. Yeah. That's why I want to show you. So the 23 put gives you a 36 cent credit. You have 225. Let's say you'll have around 260, argument, six, and you'll have a 20, 23, but you need to stock below 23. Only 70 cents away. I don't know where the stock is going in the next two weeks. Yeah, it's up 70 cents today. Right. But you'd be down $40 versus $70. Mm-hmm. It's not that much different. It's not that big of a difference. So it's almost like at this point with two weeks to go, if you're not going to close it and you're not going to roll it to July, you might as well go fully in the next 20 minutes. And then you can always take a look at what's going on. If the stock comes a little bit lower, you can see what volatility is doing. Yeah. And then roll it to July. Exactly. Exactly. Do we go back to the 24? Yeah. Let's go back to the 24 put. And we'll go in at around 80 cents or 80. Let's just go in at 81 cents and we'll see what happens. And you can change it later on. Okay. Mm-hmm. Okay, perfect. So can we go to the analyze page of IWM if we could for a second? So in IWM, you're using around $4,100 in buying power. You have about $20,000 being used of a $30,000 approximately $30,000 account. We've been rolling up all of these puts. So what does your risk graph look like? Like where is there more risk? Is there more risk to the put side or the more risk to the call side? Even the recall side. No, the risk is that we've been rolling up put. So when that mean we're being tested on the call side, that's where your loss is. Yeah. Where's your risk? Well, it depends on how many puts we have in here. They've both the same. Open up the June options for me. This is great because this is how other people need to look at it. So right there, you're short. Three puts. How many calls you're short? Let's take a look. You're short. Three calls. Okay. But your call spreads are only $23, $4 wide. Your put spreads are $10, $15 wide. Yeah, that's good. You're a risk is to the downside. Your risk is to the downside. Your losses have been on the call side. Okay. Because the stock's gone a little bit higher. All right. Okay. So if you want to, since we have a rally and you don't want to sell more puts, I don't think you do. Yeah. Volatility is low. Volatility is high. I would say, yeah, let's do it. Let's sell some more puts. Let's sell something skewed. Selling a closer put spread and a further out of the money call spread. Volatility low. You want to kind of keep it a little bit, I think you want to keep it a little bit tight. You got to fill the RSTX. 81 cents. Why don't we look to buy a two lot of puts and see what that does? Let's go down to like something, step right there. The 207 puts trading for under 10 cents. Let's click on that and buy two of them. Now, you can go down and sell your whatever is 203 put for three cents or four cents if you want. Yeah. But look what it did to your buying power effect. James, do me a favor, unclick it. Look at your buying power effects. $4,100. Now, let's click it. You're looking at $1800. Okay. That's keeping your power to dry. Yeah. I think you buy a two lot of those puts. I think if they're offered to do so. Too bad we got nothing to put that money towards. You don't bring it up right now, but let's take a look at something that's happening. We can get that done. Let's buy a two lot of those puts in eight cents if we could. There you go. You're filling eight cents. It was just a bit of moment ago and volatility must have come out just a little bit. So you got full. So now you're only using $1800. Okay. You just freed up, I don't know, $1800. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, it was $41, right? Yeah. You freed up $2300. That's nice. That's a straddle somewhere or a strangle in SPY in July when things get a little bit frothier. All right. XME, 50% IV rank relatively low for where it's been, right? IV X has been a lot higher. Stock has been going sideways for a long time. You actually brought this to my attention. So let's take a look at the trade page and you tell me what you want to do. Yeah, volatility has come in from even this morning. Yeah, that's... I mean, you've got forward slash VX, which is something you should look at all the time, down around 35 cents, trading under $15, $1490, it was trading $16, just 24 hours ago. It's a big move. A big move in this way, volatility contracts everywhere. So if you're trying to sell something, you need to be a little bit more aggressive with your sales, if the stock doesn't cooperate on price. Okay, go ahead. You've got an unchanged stock. Yeah, so you didn't miss anything. Yeah, I missed it. We're going to go into... Maybe a little bit of volatility. Integil I and then... I was looking to put on like a strangle here. I just go into the $30. So why the $30? Collecting around a dollar premium. You could certainly go to like a tight almost a strangle or almost a straddle with like $21.2. But I figure to go to get a little more conservative. What would be the first strike that you would look to do, first type of percentage strike, you would look to do if you were doing a strangle. You would look to do the $15. Okay. But there's no premium there. I mean, if you look at the $15, you look in between $18 and $19. I mean, talking about $20. $15 to $20. So you're forced to do something. You're forced to do nothing. Or you're forced to move in the strike. If you weren't trading just one kind of track for the future, because something you'd be trading significantly larger, you would look to cut down your size too. So you're going a little bit closer. You're staying engaged. You cut down your size. It's the way to... It's the intelligent way to trade in my opinion. I agree. So you're looking at what, like the $20 put? Yeah. $20. $24. Sure. Okay. I mean, the stock at $22, it's right in the middle, right? Mm-hmm. $94. Is that sound good to you? Yeah. All right, let's go to $94. See if you get filled. If you don't get filled, you can always cancel it and replace it. You had something in Solar City that you wanted to talk about too. Yeah. All right. This is just searching for opportunities, really. Sure. What's the... Can I see the IV rank in Solar City when you get a chance? Markets don't look that great here. They're not. They're 10 to 15 cents wide. Okay, so again, very much like XME, right? I mean, the IV rank relatively high if 39% for this market. Yeah. When you've got SPY down at 6 or 7%, this is at 39%, but relatively low for the stock itself. It also has a low stock price of $21 and 48 cents. Okay. So I was looking at, like, a ratio spread on the put side. Okay. So you're looking for no risk to the upside, I'm assuming. Yeah. Okay. So looking around the 19 and then the... And then along the one, the 21. So you want to buy one 21 put, so two to the 19s. It's trading around like 50 cents. It was really what I was trading a little bit higher right now, 54 cents, but those markets on your line. Yeah, you're looking at why markets. So it's going to be probably around 50 cents or lower fill. Yeah, it could be. Okay. So you want to break even on something like this, do you know? So it's going to be $2 below the 19 put plus whatever the credit is, or minus whatever the credit is, that we get so assuming 50 cents, like 16.50. Perfect. It confirms some one-time and lovaled. So that's $16.46. Yeah. Next profit's $250, and you're only using $500 and buying $5.00. Yeah. You know, it's a new low if I mean, if it gets there. So it's your strangling, 94 cents. Cool. Save and pennies everywhere. I know, right? All right. Let's go in at mid price. We can do our little trick if you want to. Change what the, uh, change from buy to sell and see if the mid price is the same. Uh, at 61 cents debit. Let's change that. Go back. That's the one that was before buy sell. Uh, was it just, yeah, it was just 54 cents. Okay, let's go in at 61 cents and see what happens. And then you can walk it down. I too have a feeling like you that you won't be filled. Yeah, right here. 58 cents or something like that. You might have to go down to, because the spread on that 21 put is 14 cents wide. Mm-hmm. And you have the spread on the 19 puts, but you're doing two of those that are, yeah, that are nine cents wide. So that's pretty close. Maybe, maybe you could fill the 58 cents. Yeah. Give us some long dealt. A little bit. Uh, it will give you a little bit of long dealt. Yeah. So what would be your management style on that if the stock were to rally significantly meaning a dollar in the next day, day and a half? Um, I mean, I would probably be trading for, let's say, let's say you sell it. Let's say you sell it at 50 cents is trading for 25 cents. What do you do? Um, I would probably leave it on, but the smart man would probably take it off. Smart one would probably buy the 17 put for under 60 cents or 50 cents. Yeah. And then you can get into a butterfly. Make it into a free butterfly. You could do that too. I've liked doing that in, uh, we've done that in GDX, GLD. Yeah. Um, so, yeah. And one by, on one by two is that you're collecting a relatively small credit and using a relatively small amount of money rather than take the 25 cents, you kind of give yourself a shot at that. Yeah. After six commissions, you know, you're looking at, you know, 18 cents or something like that. It's, yeah, that compelling. Mm-hmm. And then you're looking at a $2 wide butterfly on that you fully expect should not come into play, but you're pleasantly surprised it's like Santa Closely even presents on the new tree. Yeah. Yeah. And that happens in in our cold positions. Me too. Good job out of you on a, on a pretty quiet day. You're down about 60 bucks. Can you do something about that? I'm trying, man. I'm trying. Make it happen. Give me some love. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Peace.
Video: 096 - It S All About Gld 06 03 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back to the Nicky we're back when I start bad versus bad how are you son? You're okay. It's a little better earlier today. Let's take a look at your account Even the S&P is down four dollars and seventy five cents when you were doing better when the E-Mex S&P's were down like fifteen dollars instead of five dollars. Yeah. Yeah, you're up around forty five dollars for the day up Almost eleven hundred thousand ninety two for your year to date I made a bunch of trades they nine trades today you're short about two hundred and seven deltas eighty seven dollars and positive data decay to hold the position What did volatility do today don't look? Well, it was up earlier today. Now it's kind of come back. It's probably unchanged Awesome. It is unchanged to a little bit lower But the fact that you realize that volatility Expanded in the mornings a step in the right direction for you and everybody else out there So this morning when you were making these trades let's go to the field orders if we could Let's go down to the bottom if we can just to start in chronological order So it looks like you did a vertical spread. Yeah rolled up the NEM puts that work Okay, that was a totally defensive move. Yeah, that was a hundred dollar winner and the big moving gold this morning Had to play some defense. NEM. I'm doing. I do dollars today. It's a big move for you. Yes, but you're basically you're yeah I'm flat there you well you're down a hundred seven dollars in profit in profit that you had that we didn't book Yeah, but you're basically flat on the whole trade Okay, it's okay. Yeah, it's still a loss right at the end of the day Where everything is marked that's your high-water mark, you know, and then the next day we start again Yeah, but good okay, so you rolled up the the puts we can talk about that in a minute And they got a bunch of trades that we don't have that much time vertical roll Looks like you went from June from June to July. Yep with the call spread. Okay, nice And then it looks like you Close out of a diagonal spread that Um ended up to be a great decision looking at it now, but uh, but you said dad you're being a Johnny. Yeah, well I mean it said you move but you said Johnny move right yeah, but it's a 50-cent winner now Well, oh he said winner. Yeah, when 20. It's trading at three 47 instead of three eighty seven. Yeah We only made 20 cents on the whole spread, but the spread was was costing you around a dollar at one point You said dad you're a Johnny my answer to you was yeah Now that volatility's higher since that's high now put something on That gives you a higher probability of success like you put that diagonal spread on take advantage of implied volatility Expanding it really hasn't expanded. I mean when we put that diagonal spread on volatility was probably 16 percent It got up to 15 percent today and it's still a small winning trade take that 60 40 trade that you have on or that 50 50 trade you have on and put on one of those trades I have a 70 percent probability of success and you can make just about the same money plus your book in small winner I don't know for this Johnny who's been doing it for 30 years and for 25 of those years never had a paycheck I don't know. I think it's the way it's the way to support your family and move forward. Yep. I hear you It's not what you said on the break. Yeah Okay, so then on the strangle in spy. What did you do here? I see a soldered a dollar 42 This was this was my this was my Johnny move. I'll take credit for this Johnny move I was just I was getting a little antsy Wanted to put on a trade one with the strangle used up to a little too much buying power. So I just got out of it So just like your six-year-old your 26 years old right? Yeah, 26 years old on Tuesday. Yes Just like your six-year-old brother You don't listen You know Spy uses too much by the way all the places iwm Qs use a lot less buying power because the lower price stock that's the place you do a strangle But at least you had the discipline to buy the spread back I get it and then you put something on an iwm which is you which uses about yeah, I went two thirds the amount of buying power I went and did a dynamic in Spy perfect perfect perfect better use of capital perfect and then close out a Iron condor that we've had okay, so you close that iron iron iron condor that we had on which was really like a synthetic Strangle that we've moved up and moved up for around 50% that gave you a little bit um You're buying back that that put so it gave you a little bit more short Delta that that you already have some short delta. So we got to do a little something tweak that everything else that you did there Kind of off sets each other. All right great you wanted to do something in gold. Yeah, so I want to get to that first. Okay, so let's go to gld Trade page Get that disgusting stock out of there just kidding Okay, so gold what's it doing today? I'll big up big You're looking at a two and a half percent move three dollars almost that's a big move june or july july Okay, I want to go with a ratio spread Okay, on the call side. Okay, and I was looking at short the 122 so two times and then long the 120 Okay How much buying power does it use about two grand? Okay, it's an expensive trade. Yeah, it's a big one and But we always have something on in in gold and I have had the gold has been done very good in effect I think the reason you're going back to this is you've had success with right around this range too. Yeah, okay Okay, sounds good to me. I have no argument with it. I mean Volatility's probably up a little bit in gld. Let's take a look if we could on the chart for a quick second Just because gold is kind of inverse. Do you go you can see kind of the ivy percentile? It's not great I don't know. It's not the strategy that this Johnny would probably use. I'd probably use something a little bit different But I don't hate it. Yeah What's your management on this? Let's go back to trade page Um, so we seven cents credit is big you can go out another strike to like 23 have it and get 30 or get about half the amount of credit That's how it kind of works out like a view you just change it just for for giggles for everybody to see Yeah, you go, okay 30 30 cents 29 cents with 77 about half a little bit less a little bit more than half being in them Okay, so so you're looking for a quicker move down Yeah quicker move down to where I could buy that Did you buy the whole thing back at a 27 cent credit? Yeah, that's I mean yeah, it's because you're using the same amount of buying power your first Strangle mm-hmm, okay, sounds good to me. This actually gives us like long delta To the spot like beta way. It's a short. It's a short delta position on entry. Yes Over time it will get longer if GLD stays here or goes, you know two dollars higher only in the next 40 days. Yeah But I don't know what GLD is gonna do. So it's a short Delta, but a way to despise it so long that's going delta because it's inversely correlated Well, I say that with like Let's go in at 78 cents and then you can fix it or change it later on Yeah, I don't think you'll get filled there, but you can move it in a minute. I don't expect I don't expect that to move too much Those GLD goes significantly lower, which will help the rest of your position. Okay, since you're doing that in GLD Like everything has a yin and a yang. We got to do something in GDX. Okay, that's gonna get you a little bit short. Let's go into GDX And open up the June options And you're short basically and in the money two in the money calls. Mm-hmm. So what I want to suggest to you is I want you to buy and we can just do this one time just so that we can we can do it. Let's buy the 23 straddle in June And In GDX before you do this you have about 110 short deltas in GDX not beta-weighted. Okay, and let's go to July And again, so this is taking your assumption that you had in GLD saying okay, great. I mean it's a 50 I don't know what direction is a 5050 shot We don't know which way it's gonna go. I like the strategy that fits the implied volatility is best we can type of variamate that we have So I get all that it's good But we got to look at your overall position how it changes it it gets you a little bit short gold and you in in in all of your in all of your ETF products today you're making money. Yeah, like if you didn't have her in gold Yes, put your up $600 for the year and old so it's almost half of your profit So sometimes it pays you sometimes it doesn't that's why you have to keep going back to massaging all the things And it's not like today's not the story It's expiration is the story. Yeah, today's just a page in the book. It's it's nothing All right, so you've got a butterfly on in here, which is kind of nice to the upside. It was a free butterfly I don't know if it's paying you yet, but we still got time for it All right, so why don't we take that what did we just what did we just look at the 2023 straddle? Okay, and since you short the you basically short synthetically short the 23 and a half straddle Why don't we sell to 24 straddles Okay, we'll do one now and we're gonna keep one of the No, I want to move both of them, but you can only do four legs at one time. Yeah, okay Does that make sense? You still want to down move in GDX If you want to if you want to make this one the 23 and the next one that you do the 24 It's fine by me too like I don't I don't care like yeah, I like to have I'd rather have two contracts on the same strike Just for my own preference. There's no like trading secret here Then have one contract on the 23 one contract on the 24 I don't know that's just that's just me All right, so we'll go in a little bit higher than you can change this. Let's go in at 69 cents And hit confirm and send and send And then let's go back to June And since we already did the 23 straddle we got to buy the 23 call and 24 put And then let's go back to July and he's holding down the control key to do this as all is one trade And we were just looking at a 24 straddle. I'm looking to stay right in there again Yeah, let's do it. You do understand what I just did there. Okay, and let's sell the 24 straddle again And that's for a 43 cent credit. Let's go in it. We'll go in at 43 cents this time Just to be on the mid price I think you're gonna have to move these by two or three cents to get filled Click on confirm and send and send Okay, okay awesome any arm. We don't really have the same situation because we're kind of We're right there. We have we have straddles in there Oh, there they're like the 33 and the 34 and the stocks at 35 and change it was under 35 earlier. It's over 35 now It's right in there. I'm okay with I'm okay with waiting on you know like fixing some yeah like like I always look to fix a third or a half and Then it allows me to fight the next day If I don't fix it today, it becomes a big debacle tomorrow because now I'm kind of in the hole I didn't want to do it before I have this whole like internal struggle with myself If the market goes the other direction tomorrow like gdx goes to 24 That's case scenario for me. Yeah, I mean Well, then it then it would help it would help our any imposition that we did sure exactly So you're not you would hope I mean that's the way it would yeah, they could run independently But yes, you would hope yeah, all right. So you just took off a little bit of Um, you brought a put that was closer to my seat took off a little bit of short delta Let's go into SPY since you just took off a wide uh, synthetic strangle and let's go into SPY and see what else you can do in June and there now go I'm sorry July. I apologize James Okay, so you basically have a neutral position on in here. I don't know pick something. It doesn't doesn't matter me. You got about a minute You just bought back a Looks like uh while you were using a little bit of buying power because it was a wide one But only a $3 wide call spread and then a very wide put spread Dynamic iron condor in here earlier today. So so do you want to go to the 30 delta? Yeah, and do like a three dollar wide or something Sure sure sure so the 30 delta put 30 delta call Okay, sounds good to me now while till these not as good as it was earlier this morning just because We've kind of rallied a little bit, but it is what it is Okay, so that's your that's your Your call and you put what do you go through let's try three dollars wide so we can get far okay? So 1316 on the call side and would you do 052? Okay, you say see what you get what did you what were you looking for put everybody in the mind in your mind? Dollar credit, but this is For if we're gonna do like when we set up a an iron condor that's a one third the width of the strikes is our Our guideline to the first entry point, but here we're collecting 50% of the width so it's a less than 50 50 shot at You're collecting just about 50 you're collecting just about 50% so it's a 50 50 shot you want to have a better shot So what do you do you'd have to widen it? Or at least move the wings out Move your wings out so on the 213 16 call spread. What would you make it? Why I mean you would you could do you collect less credit? Do you go to the 214 17 or do you Why you collect less credit? Is that what you want to do? Is that what you mean or do you mean mean the 1316 make it the 1317? Well either either way wouldn't it In who would change the probabilities? Who of course you the way would change for it to increase the probabilities to be Well, if you're trying to collect one third the width of the strikes you would make it the 1416 And then you would change the 205 202 to the 204 you know 201 until you got to around a dollar a dollar 10 and credit around one third the width of strikes that'll give you a probably success if If you move the wing just the long wings out they that would increase your probability For that, like for these two shorts. Yes, but you'd be collecting a lot more credit. Yeah Okay, that's why I Yeah, well I ask you when you want go back to my original question. No, I said you're I'm gonna sell like times I know when he does it does it to me My question how you would increase your probabilities and so I there's That's not what I asked you, but go ahead. What do you do all right? You're running late, so let's we'll we'll widen them out So you so you want to take on more risk you'll you'll leave the 13 call And go to the 17 or the 18 call keep the three dollar spreads move them. Oh keep the three dollar spreads Okay, so so you'll go 14 17 yeah And then you'll go for one which I think is the right answer If volatility was extremely high, I would say maybe you say move the wings because you collect more premium exactly Go in a dollar 24 must learn something through all you must have actually move that by another strike out one way or the other And if you want to skew it one way they'll certainly can all right good job out of you you're up around 55 dollars for the day Who comes up next got him night next show me some love is the weekend
Video: 097 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 06 06 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Nigger back. Where do I start back versus bat? How are you son not too good back to being a Johnny? Oh You're out of the one comma club. Yeah So being positive you're still a Johnny. Yes when you were you remember something even the S&Ps is just a new high right? I mean are close enough to it 2110 What was your account doing When the last time we were here, it was a lot worse down 2510 three thousand down 2500 3000 now you're up 900 listick of good your county 180 dollars 900 bucks. I don't know. I mean that stinks because we were almost 2,500 I mean that stinks. That's terrible, but I had been directly wrong, right? Yeah, I mean you were directly right two weeks ago you're directly wrong now So I mean you're taking with the grain of salt right I hear it. So what are we gonna do today? Let's take a look at your account if we can but what are we gonna do today? So today you got to be a little bit mechanical right we're holding those short deltas You got SPY up another five eight percent point you got Russell up 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 I mean these are big Moves in the market for you especially carrying short delta So you had about how many short deltas on Friday do you remember I think we're closer to 200 Yeah, just under 200 so you've gained about a hundred delta which makes sense with the gamma around 50 Which means you should gain around 50 for every dollar move in the Emini S&P's we've had a little bit more than that Plus the weekend goes by so everything gets a little bit a little bit more exaggerated You've done some nice things we've rolled from one month to the next we've sold put spreads. We've mechanically rolled up Okay, we got to get one you know today when the game when the market was unchanged you were up around 50 bucks and when You know the market said it's highs up $12.50 you're down 200 bucks But if you come in short 200 deltas and and the Emini S&P's or SPY moves a dollar. Yeah, you lose 200 bucks I mean you know that going into it. Yeah, so what are we gonna do today? Let's roll up some more puts in if you're looking at two biggest things you have there. It's IWM and SPY Right, I mean for for delta. I mean the queues your short 60 deltas, but it's half as much as as The S&P and one third as much as IWM. All right, so which one you want to do first IWM or let's do IWM It's the big about this. Let's go to your field orders if we could for a quick second All right, so Early this morning you rolled up a put spread in SPY. That's correct. Okay, so I mean that one contract You were hoping to get tested on it, right? Right? Right because if the market goes down you've got the other 20 contracts throughout your your account that would be doing one you got $30,000 account and you trade usually one time during the day at two o'clock in the afternoon You know and you want to do it for the show and show the mechanical thing of it So it's it's kind of hard and then IWM you just buy in the wings buy in the wings for a Strangle that we did on Friday Thursday or Friday of last week, I believe okay, so then now that's interesting So let's say you did it on Thursday. So you waited a couple of days and the market rallies when you sell a strangle What's the harder leg to buy the wing on? If you sell a strangle and you want to You want to keep side is usually well, where's the skew? This oh the skew will be on the put so the puts are Further away so like let's say let's say you sell a strangle with a 16 delta on each side and the put is $10 away and the call is $5 away for you to buy a call that's two three or five cents you only have to go 7 8 10 strikes away if you to buy that put that's in that's five cents six cents seven cents you have to go like 20 25 strikes away Mm-hmm with the rally up in IWM you're able to buy that put doesn't help you Yeah, your strangle is probably a 20 cent loser something like that we're buying it, you know 10 points away as opposed to 20 points away That we would have had to buy it on Thursday or Friday of that's correct and a volatility contraction to make those options cheaper So we got kind of you got to make lemonade I say working in with quotes there because The position is not working. That's right the adjustment we made is better today The enhancement of being able to use less buying power using around 24,000 you're only using around 21 21,000 right now, okay Um, and then you sold out the two puts they after rolling up the two oh one puts yeah, um, shavin some patties Shavin panties right sometimes a $2.50 firm. We'll take it Ct. Why you just did that on like like Wednesday or Thursday last week to actually Friday we did Friday. Yeah, okay You did a one by two one by two put ratio spread for 53 cents and now you buy the 17 put you actually have on a two dollar wide Free butterfly with 39 days to go. Yeah, so I can happen in that time sure And now you say free. It's probably trading for 25 cents the butterfly. That's your risk. Yeah, the 25 cents or the $22 you You're a date there the $22 profit that you have you letting that ride yeah Buying that that long option it kind of makes more sense rather than just Closing it out for a $20 or $30 profit. I mean it doesn't it's good to ring the register, but it gives you I mean Gives you a shot in three in three days. You'll have that $25.00 profit for the next three weeks. Yeah, it's not gonna Thing that's happened in our Apple and GDX Butterflies that we have the the the value of those spreads just doesn't come in until like the week of that's correct Exploration that's correct. So it's a long time So you actually kind of set it if you get it now now. It's actually over. I kind of like having those on there Like a little lot of free shots. You've got one in GDX. I think that's actually helping you today That's where you're getting your profit from in GDX. That would be that that 26 28 30 yep the 24 straddles not helping you today with the What's the stock what basically unchanged? Okay, all right, so let's roll let's roll up Um, first one's gonna take you a news around a thousand dollars in buying power is probably gonna be I WM. Let's go to I WM And that's cool. Sorry That's my fault those look at that and let's go to June because you still have June positions in here You take a look at those puts that you're short your short three puts the biggest put your short is short 20 20 cents so nothing we waited as long as we could I hate rolling up into into this it's either roll up or roll out What do you want to do? There's not much premium there either too. There's not a lot of premium. Let me tell you where you go up to the 16 or you'd have to go to the 16 or the 15 yeah I guess we would have to roll out really okay, and I think this is like the time to do a we're looking around that 40 39 days left to yeah, okay, all right. Well, let's save this one then because that's gonna be a real convoluted one Mm-hmm. You'll get to it and we'll get to it in a moment if we can let's go to you think is it? No, it's fine. There's no there's no wrong answer. Yeah, that's the beauty of it like there really is no wrong answer Let's go to SPY And also let's go to June Okay, now in SPY you haven't we haven't had the reason to roll up as much Because you haven't gotten in trouble as much in SPY because IWM has moved so much more Yeah, it's almost like you know the market says right now we have to go up every day So what I thought we might do in In SPY is roll up to the 208 puts roll those 206 and 205 puts It's not gonna be a lot of credit Yeah, it's gonna be white Yeah, not even and then sell two of the 208 puts But you're only using hit confirm and send one time if you could you're only using about now there it is 128 dollars in buying power to get $78 in credit What I if you did the same thing in IWM you'd be getting a dollar worth of credit and using a thousand dollars worth of 9 power I mean all things being equal. This is probably the better of the two. Yeah to do it this way and roll out the other one See I thought and we don't talk about this at a time I thought for sure you would want to stay in the front month in IWM just because you have and you're pig at it and you So long You have it one of the roles so this is why I can never have the first Into rolling into these big moves. I hate it because then I feel like like the next day We have a sideways move and it just but what's the probability of having that sideways move tomorrow? No 50 50. Yeah, I know I probably can always happens to me where I'm rolling We're up 14 points and then You know tomorrow we're up to or one or down to okay, but I can I can I can feel for your argument if the last week week and a half we've gone back in force Yeah, and you got kind of chewed up and you didn't benefit from the from the roll up and you didn't benefit from holding the Delta You've rolled up every week and every week it saved you So I have a hard time understanding why you wouldn't want to do it now. Yeah Does that make sense? Yeah, no, I understand it but again There's no right or wrong answer, but when you're rolling up, you know a total of 50 Delta's of 300 that you're short You almost want this not to work. Yeah No, I hear you. Okay, so let's hit confirm and send and send 78 cent credit is now 75 going at 76 cents and he can change it later on we can go to running at a time I want to go into NEM and then you can decide and and put on dough what you did In everything else all right, so any M could go to a chart of any M for a quick second New my mining Now here's a position you've been rolling forever in new my mining you have on the 33 Stratl and you have the 34 straddle in June look at what volatility has done today in new my mind It's really come down. Yeah, nicely The 33 straddle that you have on we go back to the trade page Do you remember what you had it on for what it started out? Yes, it was a 31 32 34 Strangle like a really tight strangle. We did it for like 3 30 or 3 35-ish Mm-hmm, and then we rolled up the the put to make the 34 straddle probably into You know as we were being breached on 34 and you wrote what we had on the 33 line is that it is at a new one Yeah, that was a 29 30 I want to say 29 39 it was a really wide strangle that we did we did it Around the car side. Yeah, we rolled down the calls and then we rolled up the puts It was just kind of one that we've been chasing around I think we have about like 240 or 50 and credit on that in the 33 We have in the 34 the 33 we've got like 390 and we opened it for like 3 30-ish Rolled up the put for another 50 or 60 cents and we're right there and about the $3.90 cents with it and it's trading for about $3 Yeah, a little less see with a 30 All right, so you have a dollar basically a 25% profit probably what you were looking for on the tight strangle when you did it for $3 and change I don't know might be wanting to take off It might be wanting to take off and you can always or roll it to July Mm-hmm Is it does that makes sense? Yeah makes sense. I mean that the current price is really only like what 70 cents to make back on it Which is a lot I mean, it's not like it's not but you got your going back to your mechanics You got your one third the width of the strikes that you were looking for approximately Mm-hmm. It took a losing trade meeting a winner trade and you got to your your original potential profit In my eyes, it's time to close or close and roll which is exactly the same thing as closing because you're starting a new position Not exactly the best time to roll with the volatility coming in so much. No, but GDX any M in these these gold stocks are One of the few they have the highest yeah IV ranks of everything else So yeah, if you're looking to stay engaged and you're looking to put money to work Maybe a role you decide and decide what you're doing do that all on on dough and everything else like that Yep, and I wouldn't be too aggressive with this you yeah, I mean it's it right in the range where we want it to be Yeah, it's not those 30 cents lower earlier today I mean make the argument that it's it was 10 cents higher too, but it was 30 cents lower. So that's okay All right, yeah, all right good job out of your day got to get aggressive with those roles so you get filled You got to reduce your delta by around a third which is about a hundred delta's Get it done stinks comes up next. Got Tim night next show me some love You
Video: 098 - Lulu Earnings Play 06 07 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start bad versus bat. How are you son? Okay a little bit better now than earlier Even he has some peas up 675 you get the Nasdaq down 5 Russell only up 5 So you're only down around 40 bucks. Let's take a look at your account. You say only down around 40 bucks Mm-hmm. It's a lot. Yeah, I mean you I guess it's not a lot when you were down a hundred a moment ago when the work was on ties Your $850 bucks for the year your beta way to count you're still sitting at that 250 short deltas even though we've consistently Rolled up puts you know you keep picking up the short deltas you pick up about 50 short deltas every point in SPY That's what the gamma is that you get a 58 So you pick up 58 short deltas every time and that'll that'll increase as we get closer to Exploration so yeah, so we're swing a little bit more violently Yeah, close to expiration things go. Yeah, if your short options get closer to the money or deeper in the money as you get closer to expiration those options move more quicker than they do Further out options, so that's kind of how why we do our roles early is because You want to get rid of some of that gamma risk exactly so yesterday when we were talking about rolling and I said There's no really wrong answer because there isn't it all depends what the market does the next day the less aggressive Roll would be to keep more of your short delta in the front month So you'd be more directionally right for that for the opposite reason of what you just explained and if you're you want to take on Less risk because you'll have less movement you would move it to the back month That's all the only difference between rolling in the front month and rolling in the back month if you keep the strikes the same. Yep. Okay, great I was just trying to think Somebody sent me an email how long have I been doing this? 30 this will be my 33rd Summer of trading I started in 1980 but took me three years before I made my first trade on the floor of the sea But I start trading in 1983 so this will be my 33rd summer and I always forget Like I know summer's coming and I know it's gonna be slow because it usually is slow But I always forget this feeling what you're going through right now with this market Yeah, a slow grind one way or the other either no movement or a slow grind up or even a slow grind down You know if you're in the if you're on the opposite side of the market It's almost like a death trade. Yeah, but you've done a good job mitigating some of the losses Does that make you feel any better? Oh you phrased it so well. Yeah, I guess all right, so I want to look at First of all, let's go to your field orders and then you're opened water Any M you bought back it looks like your 33 straddle on a probably a little bit of weakness in any M today. Yeah, you're up 50 bucks in any M That's better than you're doing probably almost anywhere else. Mm-hmm. So you finally a little bit down with white We close the whole thing open up the rest of the position any I mean we talked about closing it one of those yesterday But the 34 I don't know it's closer to the money and yeah, I want to keep a position on in there and They're talking about rolling it to the next month You could but the volatility is just super low there. I mean there really is pretty much super low anywhere anywhere And so that's kind of a reason why I would keep it on is because it's hard to find new positions to put on and ones that are You know still battling it out and there's a lot of You know extrinsic value to still get basically you basically don't do this on the spread I mean stocks $35 you got the 34 straddle so and you cut off half your position So you reduced your risk by 50% I mean I don't know you can't ask for anything Yeah, if there was more implied volatility someplace else you'd be looking to go someplace else Okay, um, and then let's go the one working order is the diamonds you sold those puts or that puts spread it like a dollar 13 or something like that We never had a chance to sell a call spread cuz yeah Well, we could oh, but we didn't need to yeah So if you cover that diamond put which is probably only giving you around while it's right there It's 11 SPY spy weighted deltas. You'll do something in SPY or the cues or someplace else that gives you a little bit more I don't know tying up 1800 bucks for 50 bucks $55 does it seem to make sense anymore? Yeah, we stole it at a dollar 13 it made sense Hard sell on those puts right yeah, and to being the best trade that you yeah there made a recent history one of my It's a reliable last week or two right alright, so what are we gonna do today? Let's take a look at your your two positions where you still have front month SPY would be the first one and Then the next one will be I WN could go to trade page on on there. I don't know I kind of like the trade page better than mine when I'm trying to look at my position Mm-hmm. No, I think it's just because I've been staring at it so long. It just makes it easier for me. Let's open up June All right, so you're short three puts against three calls Your puts are out of the money 20% probability of being in the money 40% chance of a touch 208 seems like we were just there two or three days ago. That's because we were And you're short, you know a call that's just in the money to 11 call to 12 It's just at the money and you're short of deeper in the money call to away. What do you want to do? I mean roll them out. I don't know. It's up to you. It's inverted or roll How about this you've been rolling every day, right? And you're kind of a word of it, I think yeah, okay? So let's leave it and you can do it tomorrow Especially if you get a little bit of a down move which will benefit you But if you get enough move tomorrow sometime when you get a little bit of break from your Support role here at tasty trade you take those strikes and you move them three iron condors or straddle Strangle like products. I don't care what you do. I know IV rank is a low in SPY You have to have a position SPY if you're gonna be low everywhere You might as well be in the most liquid product and you got to you got to roll these in a way where you don't You know the call where in all the buying power doesn't get out of whack. That's true. So you got a That's just so you want to keep that the same although you are using it looks like 3000 thousand buying power you should be able to figure it out. Yeah, okay. Let's go into IWM That's your your other one and then we'll do a Lulu earnings play June Okay, so you short three puts against two calls. That's why you're a little bit flatter here And you're short the 115 puts which has around that same 20 I'll say 25% chance of touching 50% chance of touching 25% chance of being out of the money What do you do? I want to do the same thing you want to do. Yeah, I mean it's pretty much Maybe you get a day of weakness and you'll roll one time at the last six days Into some weakness. Yeah, you're entitled to one day. Yeah, please. Okay. I need it All right Lulu, can we go to a chart of it please? Are you familiar with Lulu? I am I'm a avid supporter of the yoga pants are you? Yes, are you so you're so you're a fan? Yes, they're Comfortably for you. I don't wear them personally, but oh I think that's very good for men too. Yeah, no, I actually do have a pair of their boxers. They're incredible But they're a little pricey Not the way you're trading you can be fine. No, I know all right stocks up 10 they have percent the last 10 days It's gone from 60 to 68 and change Do you read anything from this? Yeah, I mean we would just off if it's all time high Yeah, we were last six months at least typically play this to the downside Why I don't mind if I'm asking you why because of the price movement that we've had in the last 10 days It's up almost 10 percent and Data ties Yeah, I get you. Okay. I'm gonna let we didn't discuss this ahead of time. I'm gonna let you do your thing. So let's go into Lulu You got about five to six minutes. Okay, what month do you want to do? Well, go into the weekly is there okay three days to go would be the first logical place to look Mm-hmm, and you've got a five dollar and seventy cent expected move So puts us right around seventy four Okay, so that's your that's your expected move seventy four. Okay? We do I like my ratio spreads okay, so where what is your fear? You said you like the downside so you think the stock is going lower or higher? Everything has gone up so my fear is that the stock is going up. I'm afraid that I don't know every time I look at my Heater everything's never be afraid. I know all right Concern possibly yes good. That's a better word but can say never afraid Concern and I mean that because if you're trading one contract if that's small for you That's big and small for you, but you do have three contracts on another project I mean once you're smallest if you're a ten-latch trader and you're concerned you go to two and three is or whatever it is You just change your size you never can be afraid. All right. So what are you gonna do? So ratio spread like a two dollar I'm sure you spread call 74.72 ratio spread short the 74s long the 72 so the 72 if we're gonna say an proper proper trading link of 72 74 Yeah, one by two ratio spread yeah on the call side on the call side because you're because your fear is there's more risk to the downside If we were gonna have an exaggerated move above five dollars in change you would think it would be to the downside Yes, okay totally disagree with you, but this is great. All right 72 72 74 brings you to what strike? Our break even yes, I'm sorry 76 and change 76 35 perfect so you are synthetically can we see the chain from it? So you're synthetically short that 76 call which is trading for around 50 cents For whatever credit you receive on this spread. Yeah, okay. Can you just cue that one up for me for a moment? All right I don't mean yeah, that's fine. I'm just minimize it for a second. You save it. Yeah Maybe make a blast all that'll make it do it. I apologize Okay, so close up the option chain for just a quick second June 10 days to go 69% IV rank sorry not IV rank monthly implied volatility What would you expect that to go down to? Tomorrow After earnings I guess before the market opens. I don't know by half Well, if you take a look at like you know like July and September they're in the low 40s Okay, I would expect June to go from around 70 69% to 40 that's a 20% file differential not bad so I agree with you my first step would be going to June but because There's such a big vowel differential almost 20 30 percentage points. I'll entertain June with 10 days to go and let's see if it can change anything Like maybe get a bigger credit. Maybe we can go further out. I agree with you. I'd like to be done with Lulu You know as fast as the yoga pants would come off But but 10 days, you know, I can work with it if I have to it's like a long vacation You make the best of it. You know what else you can do, right? Okay So you just did the 72 74 right? Yeah, so let's look at the 72 74 again. So we're gonna buy one 72 call and sell two 74 calls Okay, so not that much of a of a credit difference right? Mm-hmm Doesn't seem that I mean for for 20 cents I'd rather I mean I'd rather just stay in in the in the June right with in the monthly as you'd mean with yeah But the three days to go. Yeah, I mean, oh you mean I'd rather go in the in the you're getting more credit You're getting 20 cent more credit, but it's marginal yeah for for 14 more days or something like that right? Well like seven days seven more days So week yeah If you miss this you're not gonna miss this by 20 cents. Yeah, yeah, that's true. That's that's a better way to put it You're gonna you're gonna miss this by dollars. Yeah Okay, all right We're going in the week. Please all right, so delete the whole thing You just delete it. That's fine. Oh, yeah, they're you delete the one that's fine Okay, and close back up June with 10 days, and let's just take one more quick look before we send this Make sure you're okay. Yeah, yeah It'll be funny when the stocks at 80 tomorrow It will be funny because I think stocks going higher you think stocks going lower Right we'll see can you make it any wider you did the 72 74? Can you do like the 70 what's the 71 73? Just do a one by okay, so that's 68 cent hold on a second. I don't sell another one. Make that one lot. Oh you got it Okay, 68 cents go down a little bit further. I mean get rid of it. What if we sold? The 75 call sell the 75 call Let's see hey confirm and send one time Now you got a break even well, it's the two cents is giving you the break even to the downside Make that make that zero just it'll change it. I'm sorry All right, so now you've got a break okay, well make it once in credit. Sorry. Thank you All right, so now you got a break even of 77 I mean another 80 cents Uh, you would do in the two other four cents. Yeah, you're right. Yeah, I mean we're gonna miss it by more than that Yeah, I imagine the 70 cents is fair enough. Do you do you one by two when we're done? We ran out of time. Okay cool all right Yeah, right? Yeah, feel good. Yeah, show me some love Ernie earnings are freaky You got him night next piece
Video: 099 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 06 09 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Need to go back. What do I start that versus bat? How are you son? I'm okay really you mean the S&P's are down two dollars and fifty cents as well as I was earlier in the day when we were down like Nine and a half ten and that nearly as well as take a look at your account you were up around two hundred bucks two hundred fifty Bucks I guess when the market was trading near its lows You're basically unchanged right now if we get another yeah ticker to up You will be unchanged To a loser for the day There you are you're up a hundred and sorry one dollar and thirty cents those a hundred and thirty dollars. Yeah Missing a couple zeros on there six hundred seventy dollars for the year made a couple trades. Let's take a look at those if we could You got filled order a two looks like you rolled your SPY calls for at least one of them. I mean, it's basically a synthetic Strangle right at this point and you're selling the option. That's a strike or two in the money What about a foot? It's about a 40% 80% chance of a touchdown there 40% on the other side, okay And then in SPY you roll the put spread it looks like from June to July June July Seven dollars wide really a new put spread because it's a new short stretch right seven dollars wide versus six dollars wide I just why why go Let's see That's six dollars wide on the close bread, too. Okay, so you didn't use any more bite. Yeah, all right good idea and then Facebook this is the one that I want to talk about because you mad at me You were away from your desk tell the story in your words. You were away from your desk. You don't know this I'm looking for you. Yeah, I want to close the Facebook By the time I got back to my desk you said oh, well, I did it without you I said okay great thanks, but I talk about you on everything that I think that you should do and you kind of do most of them push them Do yourself and try to okay? This one I could all right so here you bought it in a dollar 34 yeah, I think you made 40 bucks on you made 40 bucks on a dollar 34 worth of risk and you've got six days left Let's go into the to the chain if we could have Facebook just for a second the option chain So here's my thinking FB sorry, so here's my thinking we wanted to stock to go to 120 is stocks one 18 and a half probably right where you put this trade on Do you remember what date you put this trade on? No, but I think it was lower than this I think it was in the 17 range it could very well it very well could be 17 and a half 18 and a half somewhere. Yeah, we want a rally to 120 we didn't get it We may still get that you don't have 17 day you have eight days left to expiration You're short the 120 call is trading for 60 cents. I look at it is all risk at this point now Let's let's backtrack for a minute go to As trade on 178 so it's four dollars higher right now, so you could have gotten four dollars more Let's go into the chart of Facebook if we could for a quick second and Let's just say you bought this on 523 can we go to 523 because I think that's about when you did it And it looks like the stock was trading as you said a little bit lower Maybe let's just call it 117 looks around the average price for the day I don't remember look at what happened to volatility volatility was actually around the 14% range it went to eight Stock did nothing. I mean you really never had more than a 40 cent profit in this trade even when the stock was up around 120 Because it was more time to go. Yeah, so my thinking is if you're bullish on Facebook Let's go for a little bit more duration. Let's ring the register here make the 40 bucks and let's buy a call spread in July Where at least we have a chain like like how much more do you think that calendar spread was gonna expand 30 40 cents? So it looks like for me. I'm always thinking about risk reward So I might be risking I might be able to make 30 40 more cents on a best case scenario stock goes to 120 and volatility expands Or I'm gonna lose, you know 70 or 80 cents. Let's just say that call hold a little bit of proof So for me risk reward doesn't work out. I'd rather have a 50 50 shot in July with some duration The way I looked at it was was absolutely wrong obviously because you want to keep it on No, no, but you hear me out. So if we're best case scenario We hold this to the June expiration and the short expires out of the money suite capture all that that extrinsic value So it's been eight days past so if you look at the least let's look at the June with one day to go July would eight day to go Is there a 119 let's see if there's a 119 calendar spread so sell that one and buy the June with eight days yes And by the 119 Well, this is this is trading at 74 cents so it's it's even we What am I looking? I think we're talking different things glad what do you drop me off? I'm sorry. Go ahead So I was looking at if you're assuming the short Go ahead. That's the that's the wrong month. Yeah, go go to the July you go to the to the July eighth options the ones that are 29 days that's correct to go to one with 29 days that's what I'm saying. So look at the one yeah 100% correct So if you look at the 120 option there it's trading for like a 19 for No, the 120 no no no no no no no no no you can't look at 120 you got to look at 119 because we want the stock to go right to our short strike. Yeah, so if you look at the 120 it's gonna be worst case scenario for you Yeah, I'm saying right now if it was expiration the short call expires out of the money and the long call at 120 has around 29 days left. It's worth a dollar 90 so we sold the thing So that's what I'm saying is there's only really 20 more cents left if you stop cutting me off I can get to my point all right So what I'm saying is there's only 20 more cents to make on it if best case scenario that Short call expires out of the money and is gone and that long call with 29 or 28 days left is only worth a dollar 90 95 it's 20 cents higher so there's really only 20 cents more to make in these next nine days You're one you're 100% correct, but you're using the wrong strike in your simulation. Let me explain to you Best case scenario exactly what you said that that call expires out of the money if the stock if expiration is today and the stocks 180 60 that one 19 call is just like looking at as if the stock was 120 and that call goes out of the money And that spread is trading for two dollars and 18 cents So a little bit better to your case. There's about 40 more cents make left to make you were saying maybe 20 cents 40 cents Well, utilities not in there we're saying exactly the same thing. I 100% agree through that's why I close it So why did you want to keep it on if that's your argument? Yeah, that's your argument for keeping it on Then you don't have an argument well at first. I wanted to keep it on and then I dug a little bit read as a terrible no Stay mechanical understanding understanding. So let's go let's go to July and buy a call spread in Facebook So you can still have the same dream alive that Facebook rallies. Okay, all right Let's look at the 20 25 call spread the good thing about this is it's right in between the strikes Now the stock just rally 27 cents it was down a little a little while ago down about two three cents It's trading for around a dollar sixty one. Let's let's go in Is that the 20 25 we want to stuck it at 20? I'm so sorry I meant to say the 115 120 call spread I apologize Buying one strike in the money selling one strike out of the money right at the money is trading for three dollars right now It was trading down around two dollars and 90 cents. Let's go into $2.90 and you can adjust it When the show is over okay make sense we still want the same thing We want the stock to go over to over 120 so if I can make 40 50 cents in this in the next seven or eight days with the stock rally in a buck and a half I like the duration Okay, so make sense all right, okay You're using a little bit more buying power too. I mean, you know using a hundred dollar more and buying power and a 50 dollars more Okay, let's go into two 90 we can always change it later on get a little sell off in the market. Maybe you'll get filled But a beep but a beep but that's a couple lot of time Yeah, I want to talk about your apple trade and then I want to make a gold trade So could we go into apple on the perfect all right? So this is your bat wing trade that we put on that you hate it. I absolutely hated it on five five Yeah, how much money you're up on this trade? Hunter box. Yeah, exactly you want the stock to go to a hundred apples flirting with the hundred. Yeah, you have it on Basically for free. You're gonna keep it. Yeah. Oh, yeah 100% Why why cuz Well, I mean there's nine days left There's a lot of of Valley I can pull out of that still so Gonna hang on it on a hunch So it's where I need it to be it's perfect so every one contract trade that you look to make $50 is usually around half what you're looking to make you sell a strangle for a buck buck 50 some of the $50 75 hundred dollars is usually almost a full-value Profit you have something here on on a on a basically a giveaway trade, right? I mean it was no risk I know you have $50 worth of risk because the strikes are different. They didn't have any when we were when we were Hegey off, but you're gonna keep it. Okay. Let's go to GLD Okay, that listen you kept you kept catapillar because you're only up $50 in there now you down $50 is a hundred dollars swing You do what you want manage your winners is our mantra on here, but I guess you can't learn until you make your own mistakes. That's right You used to say the same crap to me when you when you were 12 and I hated it then I hate it now. Let's go into July All right extremely high applied volatility if we can look at it Is that GLD? Yes, extremely high implied volatility. I know you did a strangle in here earlier Let's go into a chart for a quick second volatility is upticked in GLD It's been good to us. I know it's in the middle to the higher end of where it's traded I know it's had a big move in the last few days From 116 to 121 Valtus expanding. I think you have to put in like I think you need to put another position on here Okay, okay, let's go into GLD trade page I Think what we have to look at is since you already have kind of you know 122 is your sweet spot on one trade and 118 is a sweet spot on another one So you're looking for around one 20 and a half one twenty one one twenty that era and that's right where the stock is I was gonna say let's go real wide like do a ten dollar wide iron condor almost like a synthetic strangle try to collect that Buck buck 25 buck 30 on a trade Okay, and we do have an extra pot we can sell in there too if No extra buying power you are correct. Do you want to do it with the stock? It's not ideal situation with the stock up right now, but Tilties expanded. Yeah, yeah, that's something you'll have that's something you'll have to decide to do whenever you want to do it Yep, okay, let's look at the 129 139 call spread I'm going to write around that 15% which is something we haven't been able to do on a lot of trades because volatility wasn't there and let's go to the 115 105 Classic 15% going you know as far out as I can on one side, you know to get down to you know five cents or something like that trading for a dollar 21 I have to be honest with you it was a dollar 2526 mid price I put in a dollar 25 26 and 24 offer I did not get filled I thought it'd be trading closer to a dollar 23 But it's up to you if you want to put it in a dollar 21 It's your prerogative. Yeah, let's go with it. Okay, $121 Awesome, all right, let's take a break. Tim Knight is next. I'll give you a nougat Then we'll make me some love who comes up next you got Tim Knight next
Video: 100 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 06 13 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna go back to the back. Back versus back. How are you son doing well back in the comic club. You are back in the comic club. How does that feel? It feels great. Yeah. I always thought like when when I first left New York in 1980 and then I didn't start trading till nineteen eight three when I turned twenty one and then make a couple of dollars I always thought I could go back like I could always go back to Brooklyn. I could always go back to my other apartment. I could always it is so hard to go back back in anything. Yeah. And once you're in you know once you have a hundred dollars you don't want to go back to fifty dollars. Even if you started out with ten it's like you never want to go back and I think that's what keeps you hungry. It's not a bad thing. Definitely. But it's everybody says you can always go back. I don't think you ever can go back. Let's take a look at your account. At least I couldn't do it. I'm sure we'll put up the monitor tab if we can. There we go. Look at that up a hundred and thirty bucks for the day. Pretty nice. There's your filled orders. Well let's start at the bottom there. Twitter you just rolled. We sold the call. It was amazing because right in the morning Twitter was up like seventy seventy five cents. I was like oh my god. This is this is a miracle. I just think about just getting it out of Twitter closing it. I could. I just I didn't speak to you about it. So I'm just asking not really. I mean I didn't get out of mine. I like holding it and I don't really do it. I hate holding it because I owned it a lot of iron. No I mean I own it. So you. So it's not it's not a great position but it's one of the few covered calls that we've been doing since we started the show. So it's I like it's your biggest loser too. And it's my biggest loser so I would love to cut that down. I'm down to like twenty one fifty ish in cost basis on it through a lot. Okay so you're down for $48 for the year. You're accumulating it from the beginning of time. So okay working our way back but it was it. It's you think you'll ever get back to even I think so. I think you're optimistic never. If it's not it's taking over your call being going anyway. Alright fine. I like hope. Hope is good. What comes next? GLD. Soul to put in GLD GLD's the volatility was a lot higher this morning which has helped me. I mean I think that calls come in ten or fifteen cents already. Put the put I'm sorry. We had a ratio call spread that we had a two by one. So didn't cost you any extra buying power. Exactly and so I just went to the thirty delta so the thirty delta and that actually reduced my overall delta is in gold by like almost thirty percent. So that was right because you were short around a hundred shares you saw it put to thirty delta down to seventy delta seventy shares. Six thousand five hundred dollars in buying power a lot of buying power. So how can you reduce that it's on. If we can get a volatility contraction by those wings. Yeah and mostly on the call side. Just like an SPY anytime you were to sell a strangle you could easily by easily I mean you can buy the call at seven eight ten dollars out of the money and you'll have to go twenty dollars out of the money to buy the put. Yeah. It's the opposite in GLD the skew is to the upside. So you need a down move in GLD is really what it comes down to. Yeah. Okay cool and then STX the last trade on the board there. That was an inverted strangle that we've had on it. It's been a problem child ever since I put that on and it was one that the research team got you involved in that I think. Yeah I think so. I think it was Jared actually. Really wasn't Butler I thought it was Butler. No no. No it was Jared. All right. Well I'll just do what Tom does when in doubt just playing Butler. Okay. That's all right. All right. But that was a it's four dollars wide so that's what this the best case spread would trade for. Forty dollar wide inverted strangle. Yeah. The best it can close at four dollars is not going to close any less than four dollars. It's trading at four dollars and fourteen cents. It's only all risk. You pay fourteen cents basically to get out of it. Take the loss. Okay. So what now today can you go to can you go to go to a forward slash VX if you want to go to a chart of it or you just want to go to the trade page. It's fine by me but you've got volatility up 17% alone today. It's gone from 14 to 20 and a half. And it's on its highs right now. What do you think? So you're up a hundred and forty dollars today on some directional deltas that you had. Can we beta weight his position because he's probably only short around a hundred shares or so or less. You got volatility expanding yet volatility expanding on Friday. So you're not getting that theta decay. It's kind of hurting the volatility expansion has hurt. It certainly has. You're only short 80 shares versus almost 300 Vegas. It should be around 150. So I can see pretty much neutral at this point. Maybe a tad long. I don't know if you would argue with that or not but maybe a tad long volatility expanding. So what do you look to do? Yeah, put on more trades. I think so. Where? I was thinking in diamonds because we only have one position there or at least liquid of all of the ETFs. We have so many positions in spy and IWM already that we can't really. 22% IV rank. I got it. The IV percentile 67%. Okay. What was the next one? TLT. Okay. TLT. Let's take a look at that. I think TLT is where you're going to find probably the best bang for your buck. Okay. So I'm going to start with the $4.00 stock. It's up to 4% in the last 10 days alone. That's a big move for bonds. I know you have a long call spread in there because I love the split spread. Thank you. Because volatility was so low around 7%. Now it's 44%. Just over the last couple of days. I like TLT better than diamonds and I've traded a little TLT today and the fill seem to be a lot better too. You can get filled right at mid price or a penny below or a diamond. You really got to kind of move them to 3 cents off of mid price to get filled. Okay. What was the, did you have another one? No. FXE. Were you looking at the other one? Oh yeah. FXE was really high. That one's one that's been scooting along at like 8.9. Yeah. And now it's 75%. Oh, I don't know. So it's either one of those works for me. You think you can do two trades in here? Yeah. Can do it. 4.5 minutes? Yeah. Okay. Which one you're going to go for? I'm going to start with FXE. FXE trade page. Okay. So we've going to July. July. 32 days. I would probably start with an iron condor selling on both sides. All right. So probably the 30 delta shorts, so the 108, 105. Okay. So you're going to go $3.00. That's really what our research shows. Yeah. Okay. Same thing. The 112, 115. Boom. Yeah. Listen, I listen, when it's time for me to talk, when things aren't going so well, I'll talk. Things are going well. Sorry. You're going to neutral. I'm collecting one third of the width. I'm playing. So what's the problem? I probably go to success on it. Approximately. 66. Yeah, sure. Six is an e-send. Yeah, whatever. Six is five thirty five year away. Yeah. Valtteri contracts it'll help you position. Okay. You want to go into $1.11? You can always change it later on. So, okay. It's confirmed send and send. Okay. I personally would have probably gone with a strangle just because I think you have the buying power. It uses around $2,000. I know you got the vote in Europe that's making a scurred as Benetto would say. So you're going with a little Johnny Iron Condor. Well, we're using 23,000 of our 30,000. So we're pretty, we're pretty limited. We're pretty limited. We're pretty limited. GLD positions. The one that's skewing everything. Otherwise, you'd only be using 17, 18, 19,000 dollars if you can get that down to about $3,000 of buying power. Okay. TLT. You did that one pretty quick. Yeah. So you must have had that in your mind. So here you have a TLT. Let's look at your existing trade. You have a long put spread. I assume. I said you can't go back. Can you change directions on your girlfriend? Do you hate this now? Do you love this now? You hate it now? You kind of hate it. But, okay. So do you get long it now or what do you do now? I mean, I was going to kind of play it safe and go with a dynamic or your kind of stuff of a safe trade. Yeah. Oh, good. This is what I'm saying. This would be the first time we've ever gotten a safe trade. Yeah. On a tasty trade. Go ahead. Yeah. Give me the safe trade. Let me get on. Well, we can start with the 20 Delta's, I guess you go to the 25. It's like the 131 and then the 128 there on the put side. And then if we want to lean a little bit short, we could go to the 138. And then we're looking at like the 142 or the 141? 142. You're in the same trade you just did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Blowing. So what do you want to do? I mean, you would go with a cold red? Well, first of Johnny on the other one. Okay. We were looking for volatile. You already have a down move in there. Let's do a strangle in here. Okay. Are you okay with that? Yeah. I'm fine with that. You seem like you're almost scared. Yeah. Not scared. Are you sure? No. Okay. Well, let's go to the same kind of strikes. Let's go a little bit further out than you went. Okay. Like you went to the 131's. Let's go to the 130's. Okay. And on the call side, let's see what we're going to go up to. Stop for a minute. Why don't we go to the 141's? Because you want to lean a little bit short on your iron condor. I'm doing the same thing here. Okay. 118 credit. I don't know. With 32 days to go, this is the kind of credit you would receive with 45 days to go. You got volatility expanding in there from 7% to 45%. Okay. I don't know. All right. Okay. Yeah. Let's go in at 118 and then you can cancel and replace it. Look at your account. Let's put your account up there one quick second. You certainly are in the comma. Club you up 152 bucks today and you're up $1,090. Yeah. All right. So what's on your radar? The positions that you have. What's on your radar? The first of all, first of all, do you know on all of your ETFs? Are you out of June now? Yes. Okay. So all out of the. I don't know. We have left in June is the cat position, which is covered string. We have $50 of risk. So that one is kind of just taking a shot. I don't mean. Well, you got $50 worth of risk. You need to down. You need more of a down. We'll need a stock under 75. Yeah. Then we have a butterfly in Apple. Isn't that so? Is that? Oh, that ends this week. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Then a butterfly in Apple. It's a put butterfly. That was part of our bat ears. It's garbage. It's garbage. Yeah. Hold on a second. You closed the call site, but probably really good timing on that one, huh? Wow. I guess sometimes it does pitalisten the old man. So what's on your radar, though? Do you have anything, like, what, what, what do you thinking? What's on your radar? Like, of all the positions you have there, which one would you like to lose? Like get rid of? I think reducing the gold position is on the radar. Okay. There's two ways you can do that. Either in GLD or in GDX, which has been moving step for step. Now today it's not. GDX was higher this morning at Sold-Off. GLD has not sold off. So we've had two lot of straddles in GDX so we could probably take one off for kind of a scratch there just to reduce the size. There you go. So there's more than one way to take a look at this is what I'm trying to show you. All right, awesome. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Nidenax. Show me some love. Good job, Adieu.
Video: 101 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 06 14 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I'm gonna be happy if I get a new number. Thanks for being here. Well, thank you for supporting us. I hope you enjoyed it. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Thanks for joining us. Thank you. Take care. You're back. That versus bat. How are you son? Great. Haven't a good day. You are solidly in the comic club. Let's take a look at your account and your account. You're up to the week already. Well Pete had to stop it when you're under $1,300 bucks but you're there at $1299, you're up $259. You're gonna throw $1. I mean, you're up $259 for the day. Let's bait away your overall position here. Pete's new to the program here. So yeah, unclick those, go into SPY. All right, so your short 20 deltas came in, short about 120 deltas, 110 deltas. Now with the market moving down, E-MD S-A-P's trading near the lows down 14. Volatility unchanged is the reason why you're up 260 bucks plus a little bit of short delt you've had. Yeah, it's actually down a little bit this morning when we opened. We opened around like down seven or eight. Sure. So it's basically the same market just volatility. Engle cooperating with gold has has coming a little bit. CDX has quite so you've got some things working for you. I mean, you only have one product that looks like what is that TLT working against you down $5.50 in TLT. All right, so using a little $25,000 of a $30,000 account, you're basically flat, which I would consider a little bit long. We like to have, and we talked a little bit about it today on one of the market measures that we did or optioned gyda we did today. We'd like to have around a short 100 deltas to about 200 Vega. You have 300 Vega. So I'd want that number beta way to be more around 150 to be kind of neutral. But you know, we're at the lower end of the range. Most recent range we've had. I don't know what your opinion is on the market whether we're going to stay here, go a little bit higher. Yeah. Again, that's how you skew that short 150. You're either going to have to get a little bit shorter or Friday, we were right there, but I mean, you get two days of a down move and your deltas change. And that's what happens. That's what happens. Things change. And you also got out of one position that was going to give you a little bit of short delta. Let's open up the fill daughters. I think that's catapillar. Yep. Okay, so you close that $1.89. I think you sold it at $2. So you had $0.50 worth of risk, basically a scratch. You made $10.11 on the overall trade. It was a winner at one point. Which you did not want to take. Which I did not want to take. Although the senior bats said you should be. That was debatable. And then you wanted to close it yesterday when it was a $20 loser. Yeah, like a $5 loser. $10 loser. Okay. And today you have a profit and then you decide to close it. Yeah. Fair enough. Three days to go. Yeah. Okay. Perfect. I don't know. All right. So what do you want to do? You want to look at FXC, which we did not do yesterday. We wanted to. We had a working order on there, but never got filled. Too aggressive with. Okay. Down 90 cents today. Let's look at today's option statistic. Or go to a chart of it if you want to. Whatever one you want to do. It's completely up to you. Okay. So I have a rank right, wrapped around 194%. It's gone up today. So anyway, we would have done yesterday. Probably would not have been profitable today. That's just timing. I mean, most of the times when you make a trade, it's not a profitable trade right from the very beginning. You're not having a penny or two up to mid price. And then markets move. So it takes a little bit of time. All right. So what do you want to do today? Let's go back to the trade page. I know you had talked about a strangle. We're very tight one. Yeah. As a low. Go ahead. Yeah. So I mean, the overall volatility here is really low at 14%. 14%. But it's about twice what it normally is. It's usually around, I mean, like you can see that in the implied volatility rank, but it's usually around six or seven. Because it's still low relatively. It's low relative to let's say Spy or yeah. So Spy when it was 14% implied volatility, that was considered extremely low. FXE with 14% implied volatility is extremely high, almost twice as high. And that twice as high. Almost twice as high as it normally would be. Usually it's around eight and nine to 10. Now it's a 14. We haven't seen it much higher than that. Okay. So we probably should do something here. With a 14% implied volatility, it's kind of going to be like Spy was a week and a half two weeks ago. Yeah, you got to go close to the market to get some premium. All right, let's open up. Let's open up July, Sarpy. We won't need all those strikes. You can tighten them up where you can keep it. It doesn't matter to me. It might be easy for people to see. Perfect. So I was thinking we would go with like a tight strangle. You could do like a $3 wide at the $30 and get about a dollar of credit. But I think it'd be more advantageous for us to go closer to the money like maybe even the the 109 110 and then buy like maybe $5 wide wings to make almost like a iron fly kind of 50 50 shot on it. Whether you want to be equal distance away or not doesn't matter to me on this, but on a 14% implied volatility, monthly implied volatility, meaning relatively low compared to the overall market. That's this product. It's high to this product. That wouldn't be clear about that. You certainly should buy the wings because you're going to use around and believe me, by doing the 110 1010, it's just like a straddle. Yeah, you can do the 109 or the 110's really. That's correct. I like stringing out of the money on each one. Yeah. It just keeps me mechanical. Yeah, but if you hit confirm and send one time, it's going to use around $2,000, $2,100, almost $2,200 in buying power. So we got to buy those wings. And with the implied volatility, so low, you can go out to those wings and buy them for pretty cheap. 5,7, 10 cents or less. Okay, let's take a look. Let's see how far we go. So the takeaway right now is not being equal distance away. Like you would be on an iron fly. But it's just doing something to use a lot less buying power. If you take a look up there, we do the 116 calls. I'm just looking at something that's around 5 cents. You want to do 117's fine. But let's just stay at 116. And then let's buy the go down to say like the 100 put probably. Stop for a minute. Yeah, okay, let's go to the 100 put. You're going to use about $640, $638 in buying power as opposed to $2100. And what are you giving up? You know, $0.20, $0.18? I don't know. I think it's prudent. I think that's the way to do it. Cool. Okay, let's go to it. Okay, you can just X out of it if you want. You can confirm and send and send one time. Yeah. $265. Sounds good to me. Okay. Cool. All right. Perfect. It's in. Good one. All right. So now in the next six or seven minutes that we have, even the S of P's are down eight. Your accounts up $270.00 overall. You have a little bit of, I think you've skewed a little bit to the long side. Yeah. What would you be interested in doing? I want to go into the diamonds because we only have one position there. So it's not my least favorite. Change return on capital if you can to position. Pete, if you would be so kind. Thank you. All right. So you're basically short the $170 which we had on a $170 put spread. It's a wide put spread $170, $150 or something like that. Okay. No worries. And then on the call side, we sold the $1.82 something. It doesn't matter. It's far enough. So we're just using a lot less buying power. We buy that wing just like we did in FXC a minute ago. So you have kind of, we got a little bit of a bullish position here. You put as a 28 delta or 28% probability of being out of money. Your call has a 16. That's why you're long five or seven delta in the diamonds right now. Even though you're up a little bit of my, a little bit of money today in the diamonds. Okay. So what are you looking to do? I was going to, on the put side, I was going to do like kind of the 20 delta short and the 10 delta long and it'd be about six dollars wide. So dynamic dynamic on that side. And then I was going to go a little closer on the call side just to lean a little bit short to give me some short deltas. Okay. So what, what, what are you looking to, to sell? So the puts on 167. Okay. And then we'll go to like the 10 delta, probably 161, 160. Let's go with the 160. Okay. 160 sounds good. Makes it seven dollars wide. And then the 30 delta short on the call side. I guess we go the 180. Okay. So we'll go short the 180 and then we can go out seven dollars from there. So the 187. All right. So stop for a minute. This is the only place that you lose a minute. Or you could go to the 186 if we wanted to. Well, if you're doing a dynamic iron condor. I wanted to lean a little short. That's why I went in on the, on the, on the, well, if you were doing a dynamic iron condor, you'd be doing the 181, 183 call spread right at the 20 and the 10 or the closest one. I mean, you can argue that it'd be the 181, 184. So if you're going to move it in a strike, which I totally agree with you, which would make you basically delta neutral in your overall position in the diamonds, you would do the 180 and you still got to buy that 10 delta option. I think you still got to buy the 183. I mean, I think I just figured that we'd go out further out of the money just to, because we're using that 600 bucks on the other side on the put side. Yeah. So we already have a very wide put spread in your original position that's using a lot of buying power. So it's almost six of one half dozen. Let me explain to you why he already has the 180 pushed. Let's click on the 183. Okay. And let's just click one time and see how much buying power you're using. A dollar 46 is still a lot, or you only see six hundred dollars, five hundred sixty dollars in buying power. Let's see if it's your way. Maybe I'm wrong. I don't, you know your position a lot better than I do. Change that 183 call. You want to go like to 187? Yeah, 187 make it $7. He could permanent send and send. All right, you're using the same if not less five hundred twenty five. Okay. Yeah. All right. I'm fine. And that gives you even more short delta because we're buying that. It does give you more short. It does give you more short. I mean, we're not talking about a ton of delta. You know, you're 10 delta. Listen, when you're trading one contract at two o'clock in the afternoon every day, I mean, the fact that you're up when I'm going to say, hey, compare myself to the overall market because I always think I'm going to do a multiple of what the market returns, whether it's down or up, mine's going to have a zero behind it. Meaning, the market is down 8%. I want to be up 80%. If the market's up 8%, I want to be up 80%. I mean, my goal is always, I don't have one, but it's always, you know, exponential gains. So the fact that you're doing a show at two o'clock in the afternoon and basically making every trade live in front of everybody and trading one contracts and staying to all the mechanics. I'm swinging between down and up because of your market bias being wrong in the very beginning, mine also being wrong and being it. I think it's a testament to everything that we do. I think this is awesome. All right. Does anyone want to go in a dollar 78? Sure. We're going to need to adjust that a couple of pennies. It's wide markets. You can do that yourself. Yeah. But we'll put it through. And you've got volatility down 27 cents today, even though the market is kind of, you can hit cent peak. Even though the market is kind of, oh, look at that. You just got filled. So you're going to go down a penny or two. Oh, up a penny or two. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Even though the market is going lower, you've got volatility kind of staying put, which tells me that maybe for the moment, we might be at a standstill. I don't know if we're going to rally into expiration. We might. I mean, that would be probably the public's thing to say because odds favor us rallying into it. I just don't know how big of a rally it'll be into triple witching. And if it happens, it'll probably happen before Friday, probably happen, you know, Thursday, tomorrow, that kind of thing. Why not? So it's a 50-50 shot on actually. Usually it is 53-47. On triple witching, it's skewed a little bit more. I think it's actually something like 60-40 or 62-38 in favor of the bulls for this week. I forget the exact numbers, but it's a little bit more for triple witching. Yep. All right. Cool. What's going? Yeah. Well, let's say that we've been here once before. Yeah. Who comes up next? Yeah. Tim Knight-Nacks. Show me some love. Good job.
Video: 102 - Using The Tos Analyze Tab 06 15 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Music Nigger and back. We're going to start, Bat vs Bat. How are you son? Not as good as I was doing earlier today. That looks like you're up around $80. So, how much is $1400 for the year? What do you mean, how were you earlier today? I was up like $200 earlier today. It's really hurting and goal at this point. When the market opened, the goal was kind of unchanged down to up to kind of in a... And, for a slice of GC's, up $6 now and it was down about $6 at one point today. And that was helping your GLD position, which you're short in. It was also helping your GDX position, which you're short in too. Yeah. Okay, so now, not so bueno. Not so bueno. But just get up money for the day. Yeah. And on that note, I'd like to show you one other thing before we get into the rest of the show. Sure, you can bet away to it. Thank you so much. You showed about 115 delta's, 71 theta. That's pretty good, actually, with 30 days to go to expiration. Your theta decay is pretty good. To your vague of 355. A little high, as time goes by, but that's okay too. Yeah. Are you comfortable with your positions? Yeah, yeah, I like where I position. So I know you've gone over some of your positions. And before we get to them, you were telling me on the break that you have room to sell call spreads. And what did you mean by that when you said it? So since our, a lot of our trades we've done in the major ETFs like diamonds, IWM, QQQ, we do the dynamic iron condor. So the put side is wider than the call side. And so you have more risk on the put side than you do on the call side in that. That gives us, so the brokerage firm is holding the buying power, the max buying power, which would be on the put side. Yeah. Let's say your put side is $10 wide, your call side is $3 wide. Although you only have $3 worth of risk to the upside, the brokerage firm is going to hold the full $10 because they don't know if it's going to the upside of the downside or where it's going at all. Exactly. So in that circumstance, we could sell a $7 wide call spread without using any additional buying power. So why is that important to you? Well, because you can add more positions, sell more premium without using any additional buying power. And also gives you short delta if we. So you want both of those things, but why is it important to you, I guess, right now at this moment? I mean, because I don't know. Well, I wasn't seeing any other trades I wanted to put on any other. Oh, no, no, no, it's not a trick question. You're using almost $25,000 of a $30,000 account. Exactly. So buying power is limited in my portfolio. I was limited always. It's almost nil with $5,000 left in your account to trade with maybe $7,000 left to trade with in your account. And it's almost nil in your account, right? So any place that you can save. So if you have positions in each one of the ETFs that mirror the market. So if I was looking at my own account where I might have some extra available cash, I don't have to go through my numbers. You would have to go through your numbers. So for argument 6, in the diamonds, SPY and the queues, let's say you were equal on both sides of risk. And maybe one of the other ones, you know, something like IWM, you had room on one side. And that would be the place that you would go to make a trade because it wouldn't use any buying power. Where I could have the flexibility of going any place I wanted in the ETFs. Oh, yeah, because you got this big ol' account, big, high roller over here. Oh, yeah, I just got the cash. I just got the cash. I'm going to put some more trades on you. No problem. That's not my point. What I'm saying is we're all limited by how much money we have. But sometimes it's even more in a smaller account. Whatever small maybe. One trader's floor is another trader's ceiling. Okay, remember that. All right. If we could, could we go to the account statement tab? I just want to look over some of the trades that you did yesterday. All right. Not necessarily the gold one. That's from today. You just bought wings early this morning, which probably helped you. It must have saved you some money. Save me a couple pennies. Two, three cents. Oh, it's trading. Oh, yeah, yeah. That's talking about on the trade, yeah. Oh, no, no, yeah. Because we did it when gold was actually down around. Oh, I don't care about making money on that. That's good. That's what you have. But no, that freed up about $2,000 in buying power. Dropped it from $6,000 to about $4,000. That's by buying those wings, buying the two contracts. So now you're, you took something that had undefined risk, defined the risk, and reduced your buying power from around $6,000 to about $4,000. Perfect. Can you click on that FXE trade, which is what you did yesterday? Yep. Just right click and create duplicate order, if you could. And left click. Okay, stay right there. You sold it at $266. It's trading at $245. And FXE is up $53. It's still right in between. Yeah. That's one day. That's a lot of theta decay. Why do you think that happened? Volatility. Yeah, it's all volatility. I just wanted to highlight, you know, the strategy is what it is. And it'll work if the stock accommodates you. Now, the stock is in between your two short strikes. You're short to 109 and the 110. And it's trading right at 109.84. But it was trading right in between your short strikes yesterday. This was a completely neutral type trade. The stock's up 50 cents today. Still inside your short strikes. I mean, under normal circumstances, if you weren't selling high implied volatility, that spreads trading, you know, two, three pennies higher or two, three pennies lower. It's not going to move by 20 some cents. Especially an iron condor doesn't move quickly. Like this is a pretty rare. Not with 30 days to go. So do you take it off? Um, I mean, no. But you could. I don't know. Well, what is it? No, but you could or maybe. No, no, you don't take it off right now. Okay, so I have a question for you. So let's say you were a big shiag, and you had an account like mine, and you were trading 30 contracts. Yeah, then maybe it makes sense. But I mean, for me, to take this off for. So, so $600 versus $20. It's the same percentage of risk. Why? Yeah. Okay, but why does one get taken off in the other one wouldn't? Well, this is a. So when I said you did question me because you're talking to the guy with the small account here. I said, if you're telling me I take off my 30 contracts, make 600 bucks and go go shopping. You know, that sounds great. But for my little account where I'm trading one lot and I take it off and I get 20 bucks and go to McDonald's, that doesn't. $500. $500. McDonald's, you eat a lot. Yeah, you know what I mean? I have. I have an idiot. The free lunches here are really killing me. Packing on the the trader 25 over here. All right, so what I'm trying to show you here is, and again, it all goes down to account size. How things can be the same yet completely different on such a small move. And that's why it's so hard on a smaller account to, you know, move forward because you almost get like, you almost have to trade the way we preach, meaning 45 days direction, you know, duration over direction selling high applied voucher. You have to be a lot more mechanical than anybody else. Like somebody that might have a larger account or can trade a little bit more. Yeah. Okay. All right, let's go to what you want to do. Talk about selling a little bit of Delta yesterday. Yeah. We anticipated a little bit of a rally today. We got it. We did not anticipate gold going higher and we did not anticipate bonds going higher. So of the three things that we were talking about, we only got one right. But that's the one that we'll concentrate on today. Now, you told me you had $1,000 in buying power. I think it would be good if we go to the analyze page and analyze tab and kind of just look at it. And I can walk through kind of what I was talking about. So, go to IWM, that might be the simplest one. I think it's the one that you have the most room on both sides, right? Yep. Okay. And so if we scroll down there and just take off, we have a couple long positions that we have in. You can leave that alone. You just try to squish it up if you can to get in the screen. You know, right there. They go pick up a little bit. They go left click and hold perfect. And then, unclick the June options on the left hand side. There you go. And these are just left over long. Perfect. That's just, that's okay. Perfect. All right. So it gives you, it gives you kind of your risk graph. Yeah. And with your cursor, can you go to the put side down by like 102? No, no, no, no. Put your on the risk graph there. Yeah. Go, go. All right. So at 102, 103, you have around 21, that $21,00 worth of risk. Go to the upside, like 128 or 129s with that. You have about $14,00, $15,00 on risk. So you have $6,7,800 in buying power that you're not using to sell call spreads because that's where the risk is less for the broke-stream. Now, you were looking to do something in calls. I mean, you were looking to sell some, some delta. Now, I know for the sake of time, because we only have about four, five minutes left. I know you went over your positions and you said, I WM, you had about $800,000. What was diamonds? I had another 1,000, and the queues I had about $6,700. And I WM? I WM is about 1,000. Oh, about 1,000, that's the one we're in. Okay, so the one you had the least in was the queues? Yeah. Okay, so what do you think today's Wednesday going into triple-witching when we're talking about a little bit of a rallying mark? So what do you think the mark is going to do tomorrow? Probably going to have an update. Okay, so maybe a little bit more of the same. You're not anticipating a big down move, right? Okay, so let's save the buying power on the IWM and the diamonds. And the one you said that had the least was the queues. Yeah. Let's go to the queues and do a smaller spread. Does that make sense? Yeah, I agree. So all I'm trying to do is bring you through all of the logic that, okay, let's go to the queues trade page. Well, look, you're up $19 now. Ooh. Feel a little better. Yeah. Gold must be down a little bit. Tiny bit. No, it's all in the still 680. You're maybe your GDX has helped me a little bit more now. That's up as much. Okay, so in queues, let's take a look at what we have here. Oh, go to July. Yeah, July, you were a good peep. Let's go down a little bit more. We want to get to the call side. There you go. Perfect. Stop right there. Okay, so you said you had about $300, $400 in buying power. Mm-hmm. Okay, what do you look to do? I mean, I guess we could start at the $30 Delta, which would be around the one, we'll go at the 110 short. Okay, so I know we're going closer to the money. So I get all that. Yeah. So, and I get what we said about going to the one that had the least amount. So of all the indices today, which one do you think is performing the worst? What do you mean as in, as not up as much? That's correct. It might be queues, but I know it's not spout. I know it's not spied. I know it's not. Russell's doing the best. I mean, I'm looking, so it's not fair. So you know, you're not. Russell's doing the best. The queues have been under performing all day long. In fact, they were read for part of the day, and the E-mini S&Ps were up. But the, the Russell's doing the best, followed by the Dow and the E-mini S&Ps, and then the queues. Does that skew your, your whole thought process? Yeah. What we just talked about. Yeah. Okay. I mean, I don't think going with call spread right now is the most opportune thing, but it... So do you go to the, so you go to the Russell then and use less buying power? Like even though you have a thal... Yeah. Okay. Let's go to that. Then let's go to the Russell. I don't. I mean, this is what you have to do as a trader when you know, I want to have the conversation with you and talk to you about the trades, but we also have to also, you know... Well, and this is a good practice because we, I mean, we get asked a lot of times, I'm trying to get short-delted or long-delted and not use any more buying power, the sickle way you can look at other positions. It doesn't have to just be like the ETFs. You can do this and anything that you trade in. Okay. So now what do you do? All right. Well, we can go... We could go with like the 30-delted there. I mean, that would take off the 118 long putt. But... Call. Call. That's where I tell them makes the same mistake every day. Okay, but so hold on. So if you sold the 118, what would you buy? You wouldn't need to, would you? Because we... Or yeah, because we would be short too. That's true, you would. Okay. So we could go to... Let's go with the 123, the 10-cent option, 10-11-cent, you could go to the 124 for 7-cent. Okay, so you're using five or $600. We talked about using three or $400. Yeah. So I would skew that change a little bit. I would sell like the 119 and buy the 123 or 122. It's up to you. Okay. Does that make sense? Yeah. Okay, so now go to the sell, go to a vertical spread if you want. Change that 23 is fine. Or 22, it doesn't matter. Either one. Okay, so now the question for you is 60 cents or 50 cents enough to sell that spread? No. Not really. Okay, but what can you do? I mean... Move on to the next, you do it. I mean... Or you're stocking you have to. Yeah. I mean, it is what it is. Mm-hmm. Right? Yeah. Okay. I mean, but I don't like need to put on a position. Okay. So then maybe you do nothing. Yeah. Okay. With volatility lower, it's down to $1.17. Uh-huh. Okay. Maybe you do nothing. Yeah. And maybe you wait for market movement. If you think the market's going to go a little bit higher tomorrow, which is what we've been talking about. Yeah. And I'll pick up the short deltas if it does go higher. That's correct. So. I don't need to compound that. Do you think... I'm running out of time, but do you think about selling any more bonds? They're selling more TLT? Yeah. That's the place where volatility's expanded. I'm going the Ryan route. I'm leaving you and Tom in the dust on your short bond position. Smart young men. Who comes up next? Got Tim Knight next. Show me some love.
Video: 103 - Iron Condors 1 3 The Width Of The Strikes 06 17 2016.mp3
Transcript:  you think you're back my friend where do I start bad versus that how are you good getting paid today today is a payday you're right you're up to pay day 259 bucks about 16 hundred and fifty dollars for the year to date kind of close to probably a year high to you yeah two weeks ago you were near, well you weren't at year lows, but two weeks ago, a different story. And your deltas haven't changed that much. You're short 110 shares of SPY, you got about 400 Vega, you're right about where you should be, maybe you should be a little bit shorter. We took a kind of a long bias going into this expiration week, which was wrong, but you got paid, which was nice. Yeah, but I'll tell you, you okay? Yeah, yeah. So we've lost some of our short delta with the down move, obviously. Sure, sure. I mean, that's going to happen. How much short delta will you lose on a $1 move in SPY? 68. Deltas? Perfect. Yeah, perfect. So you'll get less, since it's a negative number, you'll get less short, you'll pick up 68 positive deltas. And if we have a $1 move the other way, your deltas will go from 110 to about 170, 180, an approximation. Yeah, volatility changes, everything else, you know, your number can, your number will change, but that's a good idea. Yeah, those are all dynamic. I mean theta too, you would think, you know, that would be a given, but it's not a given. Well, your theta is actually negative $20 because of the expiration today. Yeah, a lot of options have one penny on and stuff like that. You're picking that all up. Your theta is more like a positive 60 or 70. You could do that in the analyze tab. I don't want to do that today. We've done it before. Okay. I know you handle a lot of the support that we do here at Tastraint. So when you, when somebody calls in and you, they get Nick, they're, they're getting you. We don't have another Nick that does support. And I know you were getting people talking about, you know, you have this high implied volatility. Sometimes I can't do strangles and other things that we do on this show and Tom does in, in his trading. And you're actually kind of handcuffed a little bit too because you're using around 26,000 of a little more than a $30,000 account. So you can't go into SPY and do a strangle for $2,500. So you want to collect one third with the strikes on a smaller striked iron condor. Yep. And you found a couple of them. Yeah. Well, we'll do the first one. Let's go to FXE. Okay. We already have a position in FXE, but okay. Okay. Well, why don't you, you said you had two. What's the other one that? XLE is the other one. But let's go to XLE as a, as a neutral. You already have X, FXE, which is a euro. Let's go into XLE, which is energy. Yep. Okay. 28 days will stay in July. Okay. So what do you look at to do? Half-dollar wide strikes, which is nice. Yep. First thing I look at when I see half-dollar wide strikes are the markets the same in all of them. Like the 65 put the 64 putter. They both $1 wide, $2 wide, or the calls, they're $1 wide, $2 wide. They're all the same. They're all the same. Yeah. A lot of times sometimes on, on like bigger price stocks. Yeah. Like in like an apple or something like that where the puts will have $2.5 strikes and then like the on the call side it'll only be $5 increments. Exactly. And sometimes the markets aren't quite as represented on the half-dollar wide strikes. Not so much. But a little bit. Yeah, listen. You take a quick scan. They all look good. So pick your poison. So what would you do to try to click one-third the width of the strikes? So we'll start at the 30 delta short strikes. Okay. On the put side we could go to the 64. Just to stay in the end of the... Sure. I like whole numbers too. I agree. Okay. So go to the 64. You want to sell an iron condor or sell a vertical however you want to do it. And then we'll go $3 wide so we'll make the put there 61. Okay. All right. So you get about 45 cents. You're going to have to pick up a couple more dollars on the call side right to get at least over a dollar for one-third the width. Yeah. So let's go with the 69. Okay. Yeah, you can always change it. Yeah. It doesn't work. I think it's going to work though. The 69 and then the 72. Okay. Yeah, you got to deal with pt is sometimes. I know. We got the C squad against all right. 69, 72, $3 wide, 64, 61, $3 wide, $6 natural is a dollar for us. You can fill the dollar for it. Let's put in a dollar six and you can try to change it. It's one-third the width of the strikes. Right. So they're not that hard to find. What's the... This isn't even that high of an implied volatility ranking. I think it's in the 30s. Okay. Use a $200 worth of buying power. It's had a little spike recently with the move back and forth in oil. And you wanted an energy position. Yeah. You want to know something in the equity world that we live in unlike the futures where you have Fodeslash CL. It's not a great energy oil play on its own like, you know, GLD is pure to gold. USO is oil. Not that great of a trade. You can hit send. Please, one-six is fine. Cool. You're probably not going to get filled. You're probably going to have to go down to one-on-five and maybe even one-on-four by the time the show's over. Cool. We can check it out there. Okay. All right. Good job. What's... You said FXE. You already have a position FXE. I want to get something else on. Okay. Maybe even something different. And then if we... And then when we're done with that, we get that on. Maybe we'll put on the FXE trade. Okay. So you had said another airline. Okay. Delta Airlines. Can we go to a chart of it? Because it's not something I trade. I know you already have an AAL position, which is a borderline, profit or loss, about four or five cents. One way or the other. That's pretty much. Okay. So I look at this... I've earank is 36. I see how it's elevated for... Yeah. What's going on? You've got to put everything in contact. I mean, you have to be... I've been percentile 66. It has been 100. Yeah. The IV percentile has been over a hundred when the stock was around this price previously. Okay. You want to do it. Yeah. Okay. Delta Airlines. What's going on? Now, you already have a short put in AAL. What do you do? It's going crazy with the circles over there. Yeah. We're good. It's like... It's like a whole other guy. Young kid in my six-year-old with crayons over there. He's having a fun time with it. Okay. So what are we going to do? What are we going to do in Delta Airlines? I was just going to sell the 36-plit. It's been... Okay. So... I don't... I just saw a low-price stock. You probably use about four-ner box and buying power a little bit less. Get a 20% return on capital, not horrible. Totally agree. Managing it around 50%. Maybe you take a little bit more liberties with that. If you were maybe 35 cents, close it at 40 cents, close it at... I get that. All right. So can I play Devil's Advocate for just a quick second? Totally good play. Let's stay with the same thing. You're kind of bullish on Delta Airlines because it's down. Let's minimize that for a minute. Let's stay with that same put that you're doing. The 36-put hit it one time. It just give me the buying power how much it uses. Like you said, I think it's about 500 bucks. Just hit confirm and send one time, Pete. All right. So it uses about 560 bucks and buying power. Okay. Perfect. Let's get out of it for a second. All right. So how about we sell a call with it? Okay. We've done this before and gotten burnt. Yeah. Like you've wanted to be directional. And you were right directional. We sold a call and it went too far and it became a big conglomerate. Yeah. Okay. Well, let's see if we can sell like... I think you can have to go a little closer. They can have to do the 41 call. Okay. So here's my thinking. Adult Airlines at American Airlines, they all look around the same. They're all on their butt. You already have long Delta and American Airlines. Let's have less long Delta hit confirm and send one time. Use the same buy. Use the same amount of buying power. Collect a little bit more. Maybe you manage it at the same 40 cents that you were going to make on just the put. What do you think? Yeah. Go put that. You're open to that? Yeah. All right. That's going to $1.31. I'm going to make a good mood of that. I mean, when you're having a solid day. Yeah. When you're making money, you're certainly... Yeah. And that's the way you should be. You should be putting the house money to work. You shouldn't be pressed when you're down. That's what most people do. Just like when they try to buy something when it keeps running higher, they kind of sell something when it keeps going lower. I like to buy it when it's going lower and get that bouncing. Sell it when it's going. I like to be the contrarian. And that's kind of what you're doing here. Okay. FXE. Now let's go to a chart of this if we could be. Obviously going to show a high implied volatility in the 90s. Yeah. Euros in play. You only have one position in here right now. Yeah. Okay. 76 IV rank. So I think what you're trying to show here is we had a low implied low-ish implied volatility in XLE. Yeah. On an IV rank IV percentile. Although the IV percentile on this is 88. I think the other one was 63. And the IV rank in the other one was 36. I think this is 76. So yeah. Certainly more elevated. Let's take a look at FXE and see if we get the same one third with the strikes. Yeah. I think that's what you're trying to do, right? Yeah. Okay. So what are you going to go to here? And remember something high implied volatility on a very low implied volatility stock. You got you got it going closer and implied volatility of 13. But it's still the 30 delta strikes. That's where I'm going to go. It's only equals like the two of us were to race. I remember when you were playing football and I was the coach. I would race the whole team and you guys were 12, 14 years old and nobody could beat me. Yes. Right? I came in first and then we all started the same time. Yeah. And I beat all of you. Yeah. 50 of you. Yeah. Your self included. Yeah. You would. Yeah. Okay. So you were 10 years younger. I was 15 years younger. Maybe 15 years younger. Yeah. Now the last time we had a race, I had to pull up lame, right? Because because after about 20 steps, you were already 10 steps ahead of me. Yes. But I had pulled my hand. Oh, okay. Is what happened. You didn't have the right shoes on. I remember two, right? That's right. We were going out to dinner. I didn't have the right shoes on. I had my my dance and shoes on. Right. So you were well ahead of me. Yeah. Okay. So my point is when I try to make yours, you know, each product is different, but the probability of them getting somewhere, we're doing something is the same. This is slow or moving like I am now. Actually, it's going to be a little, okay. Go ahead. Cut it in 30 delta shorts. So it works. It works out just about every trade you make the 30 delta, $3 wide with a relative amount of time, meaning 25 is kind of about the least to about 40 some odd days, which is which is the best for us. It's going to work out to be right around the dollar on just about every product you look at. Okay. So go down to Iron Condor if you want. Go to PD's learnings. Get an old. Wow. So you can just put it back right back up there. Pete, we're going to go to the other puts. So go the 108 put. 108 105 put. Correct. I'm assuming. And then I think on the call side, we got to go a little higher. So let's minimize it now, Pete. Just look at the look. And the 30 delta one is going to be about what the 112. Yeah. Okay. So we'll go the 112 115. Okay. Let's see what that comes out to be. Yeah. You got him. Let him to get him. Clip just make that 112. James back on Monday. Monday. Oh, my not all. And you're getting that same buck or so higher implied higher IV rank higher IV percentile. Same exact probability of being in the money as XLE and FX. I'm sorry that they're so close in. Yeah. They're symbols. I know it gets a little confusing for people. The other one was 104 bid. This one's 98 bid that all goes down to the implied volatility of the product itself FX. He being the slower mover of the two. All right. Let's go into dollar two and you can change that after the after the show is over. Beautiful. And you use it about $200 and $38 in buying power. So you've got delta airlines working. You got XLE working and you got FX XE working. All right. And you've got about 27,200 dollars or 27,300 dollars of your account. So you're basically moving forward. You're in kind of adjustment mode. You're doing nothing. If this or you got to take something off. Yeah. And I think probably in gold is where I'll look to excellent. Like that GDX trade that you have on it doesn't use a lot of buying power but that's one that's kind of bitching the butt a little bit. So you might look to do something there. GLD is another one where you've kind of grown into a position that's probably a little bit bigger than you want it to be. You might want to look to do something in there too. And even SPY and IWM in all the rest. I think you have almost five contracts in SPY. Yeah. Big boy now. You got your big boy pants on. Good job, because I remember because there's a long time there took us to get you out of date. So I'm very very happy that you graduated to the big boy pants so quickly. Who comes up next? Happy Father's Day. Thank you very much. Good job. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God bless you. God
Video: 104 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 06 20 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you were back where do I start bad versus bad? How are you son doing well happy Monday? No good Monday Happy Monday how come um Well volatility contraction has helped me but the way the market is moving has not so they're kind of going against each other So the equity market even the S&P's up $25 and 25 cents is not helping your overall Beta-weighted Delta's but volatility is yes, and what's the net net number? Positive let's take a look at your account so so I guess good Monday. Yeah, yeah, it's a good Monday Right, I mean let's go look but you do have some things going your way like you have the equity market not going your way But you've got gold going your way and you have TLT going your way which we've been fighting for a long time You could see from your P&L and gold up $167 For the day is one of your biggest well the biggest winner in your overall counts You have 140 bucks carrying short Delta's the first thing you I am to me this morning was WTF WTF right because so the E-Mini S&P's up right about where they are right now, right and As soon as the market opened where you up or down money for the day. I was I was up. I was actually up more than I am now That's correct. Yeah, because gold was down a little bit more So you bet away your portfolio you're short about 250 Delta's you got about 400 and change in Vega that Two to one ratio is about even right? What other Greek did you notice has changed a lot in your data my theta has been Popped up. So how does your theater change how does your theta change when you didn't Before that one order that you filled You hadn't changed anything in your position. Why would theta change? Why do you think theta changed? Well time Another day has gone by but the volatility contracting would would help part of it Yes, what would be the last component of that the market actually moved into your sweet zone meaning Into where your short calls and puts are both out of the money so your theta increases even though you haven't put on any positions If you looked on dough, which I know you don't have up there You don't have to put up there But if you looked at dough on the last couple of days Do you know what your probability of success was on your overall account? 60s it is now. Yeah, it's about 65 or 66 now. Yeah, it was in the 50s on Friday Thursday Wednesday Thursday Friday last week So the higher probability success you have the more theta decaying of because more of those options are out of the money So it just means all of your adjustments anything that you did to kind of you know Enhancered delta's by trying to increase your problems successful your portfolio It's really coming to fruition today. Yeah, and it hadn't come less weekend volatility contracting it And you're getting into that final stretch towards July as well or you're in that 20-day range That's when things start moving quicker. You'll see 20-day range from the time that you put on these trades Yeah, yeah, you're halfway through the duration so like this is when you know things start to move a little bit quicker for you and against you Yes, so far four ways. Yes. Yes. All right good. So you're using a lot of buying power $28,000 over 30 some odd thousand dollar account you did one order I saw that come through early in the morning. I think you sold a put spread a roll the put spread It's just a naked put roll the roll the naked put up. Yeah, it was part of an iron condor I actually thought it wasn't using any body power, but it was okay. Actually about seven or about seven or box Yeah, okay Bad math early in the morning. That's okay. It happens to all but it happened to me all the time I mean the guys used to make fun of me in the pit where they would you know Ask me if they wanted me to take you know if they want to take their shoes off so I could Use their toes to count with because I was not I was not a very I was thinking about other things Yeah, and not my account like whether I was long or short 50 or 55 options didn't make a difference to me I really just wanted my Greeks to be to be right Whatever I thought right was at that time. All right, so what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do in your account? Say I thought we'd take a look at I WM try to get that $700 back and then go into TLT with the bonds Selling off by over a point we might be able to buy some wings and save ourselves 14 or 1500 bucks cool. Let's go to the analyzed tab if we could I don't have a new Yeah product for you to trade and we don't we really don't have the buying power to really don't have the buy You certainly could do like a vertical spread either creditor debit But I think you pretty much represent and everything. Yeah, I mean affect that you know if we had time I was I told about you know Maybe you take off your Delta airline trade you just put on yesterday Sold it for around a dollar 30 you're up about 30 cents maybe 25 cents if you had 10 contracts on you'd probably take it off Or you take off half yeah with one contract maybe you don't all right Let's go into I WM if we could and if we go into July I WM is up the most percentage wise out of all the yeah, I WM you don't have a good P&L and we're down about 350 bucks for the year. It's it's your it's your worst one. It'll come in eventually We're gonna go all the way down to the to like the 97 puts or the 102 puts what what's your lowest put you gotta get open a couple more We now have half dollar wide strikes because expiration was over No, no go back the other direction Okay, so so those those two puts that you're long the 95 and 97 we've got to kind of roll those up Yeah, something so let's click on selling the 95 and selling the 97 put And then let's look to Let's see we're selling both of those right? I'm doing this backwards. We're gonna have to okay, so let's do this So let's buy two of the 102 puts leave it the way you have it James selling those two So we're gonna roll so we're gonna roll up those puts we're gonna buy two of the 102 puts if you want to make it Easier you could just do the buying the two of them and show how it changes, but this is the same way Okay, as opposed just leaving those long ones out there. Okay, so you so unclick it for a minute James I understand what jam would Nikki say so yeah, yeah, we're using about five we're using five thousand dollars right now in buying power Yeah, and when you roll up these two puts if you click up up. Yeah, all right, so you're you're getting that $700 back Seven hundred isn't significant because that's what you use from the diamonds. It's just kind of what's working out to be Yeah, so if you buy those two you're not gonna change your Delta's it all really From what you have and we need to change your delta's a little bit in there, right? Yeah We've we've kind of learned that around a hundred SPY beta-weighted delta's is about your limit for when things start getting you know Too much delta in one direction or the other So what could we what could we look to do maybe we if we buy this you can leave that in there Maybe if we buy this and roll up one of the puts I mean I think we have a really far out Put maybe like the 105 or something like that. Well, I was gonna I was gonna Yeah, I was actually gonna roll up the one oh one oh sevens and you could certainly roll up what anyone's you want But let's take a let's take a look at it. So let's sell the one 13107 put spread Okay, let's take a look at how your your Greeks changed there. Okay, so you only use a hundred dollars worth of buying power more right after saving the 700 you it's trading for around a buck-off or we like to collect around that dollar now you've changed your delta Unclick the sell from it from negative 138 To negative 117 not enough. Yeah, but what if you do two? So then you drop it another 20 or 30 delta. Let's take a look Change it to two Okay, so now you get under that one hundred in IWM beta-weighted delta's which IWM delta's which beta-weight is really gonna bring you more into about that 65 range in SPY because it's roughly half the size of the SPY so just about so I think that's the kind of trade that you're gonna have to make In in IWM remember we started out with 5,000 in buying power we roll up two puts We sell two more puts and you're right back to five thousand dollars in theta decay Unclick both of them if you could for a minute And you've really haven't changed your theta decay by that much you've actually increased it by a hundred But that's also going to increase because those puts that you're short those eight and ten dollar puts They're not gonna give you any more theta decay. Yeah You know I'm saying okay, so that's what I'm thinking about in here and let's go to TLT to be a real easy one for you And like you said Russell hasn't had a down tick all day And it's actually the one that tightest ones. Okay, so in TLT In TLT using around twenty six hundred dollars in buying power. Yes using around twenty six hundred dollars in buying power How many um do you have any short calls and short puts you have? Yeah, we well we have an iron condor and then we have a strangle in there and then Long put spread okay, so you're naked short one call and one put yeah, okay So if we bought one call and one put you'll drop it by like a thousand or so yeah, maybe even a little bit more depending on what strike you pick Yeah, so let's take a look at buying we'll do the put side first Let's look at buying what like the 125 put it's probably gonna be around a five Delta. That's fine the 125 put And then let's buy the 150 call It's good doing this into a down move because the calls are trading They trade more expensive so we can go closer to our Short strikes now that it's down, you know a book and change bucket team exactly the skew on TLT unlike in IWM See when you're rolling up puts an IWM or any type of ETF it's not like your It's not like you're gaming the system or anything like that, but the skew is to the downside It's a lot easier up from me on an opening trade to sell naked calls because valet or white call spreads because when the market moves higher Fultilly tip tipy contracts. I don't get beat up when I'm rolling up and I'm getting too short I don't mind rolling up to put so much because I feel like I'm getting a fatter put so I feel like both ways when it's working against me and working for me The the strategy works for me does that make sense? Yeah, okay? So on this one you go from $2,600 to $1200 you save yourself about $1,400 Perfect, I think you need it. Yeah, because in the coming days you're gonna find August has 60 days Life we start getting tested on some of these calls. You're gonna see buying power being Expanding in our in our council. Yeah, it makes sense to free up that $1,600 You want to go in at $0.14 and buy these or do you want to wait? Sure? You could do you could do what you want Yeah, believe it you can you can you can no big rush on those those aren't gonna no the money whether it's 14 cents or 15 cents It's not really much. Yeah, yes. All right. Good job out of you. You're counting up 185 dollars Yes, go to the money to have one quick time 1800 usually it doesn't work this way when the even he's there up 24 25 points that I'm So so I tried explaining to you last week What I think we were seeing was this expanding volatility plus not getting the weekend like I you know I've said to you previously in other days like you're not getting paid for the weekend this Friday This week that just passed you didn't get paid for Saturday and Sunday on Friday. You're getting paid for it today though. Yeah You get a little down move tomorrow perfect right where I want it to be who comes up next got Tim night next show me some love
Video: 105 - Straddle Vs Inverted Strangle 07 05 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back where I start that versus bat. How are you son good good? South start to the week for you have a good for us. Yeah, you enjoy yourself. I did I did good good And so far your days coming okay. Yeah, all right. Well, let's take a look at your account It's been an active day. It has been active day even the S at P's down 20 and a half Down right around 1 percentage point. You're up about 360 bucks for the day But 160 bucks for the year. How's your performance? Working our way back so I got a question for you Market was 21 15 before Brexit Were you long a short delta? Oh short going into Brexit. Yes, the the most short you've ever been Up there. I was like probably 354 pretty close right? Yeah at the bottom when even the S&P's broke 2000 Were you long or were you sure I was long? I was probably long another 300 long as you've ever been pretty much Yeah, and you stayed long up until 20 30 20 40 So you're short at the top you know long at the bottom and Your P&L is Not that great. I mean, it's positive. I guess you're not getting killed. Yeah, but but okay, so what happened? I'm getting hurt in other places and gold bonds even in My volatility positions, right? So right. It's all so what happened did some things move too quick outside there? Yeah, okay, okay Do you think that the the 1000 some odd point move in the MNS and P's in 72 hours was too much? Yes, so okay, so for your positions and the way we trade that was probably the worst setup Or circumstances the way it played out that we could ever expect correct? Yes, okay And you're breaking even making a small amount of money whatever it is. That's not so bad Yeah, it's not so bad. Not great. No because that's not what we're here for But the process the learning the putting it out there knowing what your risk is now like you've been using just about almost all of your $30,000 account, but really what's your risk been wrapped around $2,000 one way or the other positive or negative? Yeah, okay, so I mean it kind of puts everything into perspective now I understand your real risk is whatever your buying power reduction is But as long as the market opens at some point that real risk is probably one tenth Yeah, of what it's that's what's dead even after a hundred points move in the E-many is it was not both ways yeah both ways It wasn't like my whole account was at zero order But you felt that way the first time. Yeah, I mean I have the text to prove it I mean you felt that way the first time they were down, right? Mm-hmm Okay, but now you've kind of experienced something and you still got paid a small amount of money to it. Yeah, not great But some consolation price. Okay, so what are we gonna do today? I see you've got ten field orders You can open them. I don't want to go through them all you basically Reduce some of your short delta. Yeah, right first trade there on the bottom You know you got out of UVXY because it's gonna split Yeah, it has a five to one split and I don't I after the HPQ back like when we first started and just seeing how those those Markets react and just the liquidity issues and just getting in and out of trades there I just don't want any part of it so close it out I've made you know enough to cover my commissions. I've got a long put a lot of ticket there and perfect And it was a wash trade or a small profit, right? I WM looks like you just Rolled some puts August gotcha gotcha. You did it for a small credit Yeah, did it twice or just the amount of contracts you had we'll take a look at that in a minute Back in our condor I think that's probably for a profit. Yeah, actually those just a 50% It was okay. We did that. It was just three dollars wide. We did one in XLE one in FXC a couple weeks back Okay, you still work in the one FXC. That's the work and what will get that in a minute I WM looks like you're Just closing up position. Yeah, right? Okay? Let's see 48 cents in the diamonds look like you're rolling up some puts Okay, and then SPY Looks like you're closing a position. That's just like reducing units. You reducing units getting ready your delta that you had on You did this all with the EMS piece somewhere between 15 and down 20 right where we are right now Yeah, okay, EMS piece down to one all right now you're using let's just bait away Everything you have it there you got a hundred and seventy nine short Deltas you've got about I just round 200 short vague and that's about what you want right one and a half to one close enough to it 105 dollars and theta decay, but we're 10 days before expiration So they can move and we talked about rolling and you roll those IWM puts as part of those field orders on Friday we rolled just the call side just running out of time and today you're old to put some IWM's been the one that's been our Biggest thorn yep P&L 728 dollars negative. That's yeah that and the bonds are your two worst positions Yeah, I know you mentioned gold you've had quite a swing in there you're up around 500. Yeah now you're unchanged in there So yeah, I can understand that that being a problem too and then some of your volatility products like Vxx has been your other one But we're not gonna trade Vxx anymore. We're not gonna trade you Vxy anymore. Yeah, so we got rid of those Okay, so what are we gonna what are we gonna do now? I think we have to concentrate since you kind of got your deltas in hand Let's concentrate on some of the things that have that have kind of bothered you I think that's TLT and GLD. So let's go to TLT for just a quick moment. We're gonna go to the trade page Let's open up July Okay, so in TLT you've already rolled up your puts your down to puts that are trading for under 15 cents You basically short a very wide call spread. There's one more call. It's missing up there. It's like the 135 uh the direction Perfect, so you're short this really wide call spread um in TLT you got TLT up another two dollars today You certainly can take this position close it because right now you just short two call spreads Yeah, that's what it comes out. This put spreads aren't doing anything Not gonna help you. Mass fact that would they're not doing anything really for us Perfect. I would recommend probably just buying those puts back I mean a dollar a day and theta decay You're using in TLT it looks like around almost $2,600 in buying power So we've got to do something with this. So here's my recommendation for you. Let's buy the 135 143 call spread one time I just stay with me for a minute. Okay Okay, that's gonna reduce your delta Now I know you're taking it off for a loss. It's uh, it's uh, it's uh, it's a done trade It's it's finished But you're taking your that you're reducing your delta by half now hit confirm and said one time Now your break even on this is 141 26. It's trading at 142 70 So the stock can go down another buck and a half. I'll just round And you break even on this in the next 10 days now. I don't know where it's gonna go But you're still short another call spread. Do you understand what I'm trying to say? So when I'm trying to get out of something I don't want to get I want to look to get out of it When I'm short less than the price. It's trading at right now That at least accomplishes that Okay, do you understand what I'm saying? Yeah, so it has to stay I'm if it stays above 141 26 and it works for that one position. Yeah for this one position. That's correct That's correct now close that for just a minute leave it there And let's buy back those two puts the 137 and the 136 I believe they were you can you know keep it all as one Uh, just hold down the control key By the 137 And by the 136 Now you're out of all your downside risk Okay, you're throwing in the you're throwing in the towel you're throwing it one That's correct in the money. You'd still have one short call spread. Okay. All right. Let's go in it Let's go in at 650. I just want to give filled on it and if we cost us a penny or two it'll cost us a penny or two There you go. Okay, so now let's look what you have I'll go back to July for just a quick second. I'm sorry Now you're short the 141 150 call spread where do you want TLT to go to 141 even though you bought back that other one you wanted to go below 141 because this spread will Decrease and value more than that. Well, this one will go down by $2.50 and the other one will be quote-unquote Unchanged that expiration will be unchanged. It'll probably be trading for less. Yeah, if this happens tomorrow But at least you're still in the game you reduced your delta by half You didn't really free up that much buying power, but you freed up about a thousand dollars. Okay So then are we gonna roll this to all get tomorrow or the next day because I want to do another one in GLD So so what did we do right there like like I'm not gonna roll a deep in the money Call spread Just for the sake of rolling a deep in the money call spread to keep the dream live I'd rather sell and add the money call spread with TLT Having high implied volatility or selling at the money call spread or do a super bear or do something else instead of A 50 50 stock substitution deep in the money call spread and you're probably only rolling that for a couple Couple thing if you can at all. Yeah for a couple pennies. That's correct You still get the dream alive. You still want TLT to go a little bit lower. All right. We haven't added any more risk Makes sense. Yeah, okay. Let's go to GLD So there's different ways of rolling taking off How you take it off is also part of rolling it too Now if TLT continues going higher you're still Still stinks. Yeah, okay. All right, so in in in GLD taking into consideration Exactly what we talked about here now you don't have let's go up just a little bit further like um towards 130 ipad You don't have another long call to kind of pick a strike That you want to roll up to but if you wanted to do something in here What about buying that back that 125 call And excuse me this 125 is fine. Then we can do the one 22 by the 125 call and then what call would you sell? Um 30 delta go to the the one 32 okay, so before you click that what's the one? Well, well here like we're not gonna sell or we wouldn't sell the clothes the thing that we have so you're in the money Well, you you're certain you certainly you certainly could that would give you that would basically give you a hundred delta's here So sell that 135 call just to just to make it and you want to know something timnites on vacation. Let's go for half an hour Okay, I'm telling you okay, all right. Yeah, so he confirmed and send one time Okay, I'd be buying this back my break even's 129 42. I'll be buying it back at parity Meaning parity to where the stock is trading out right now. Yeah, okay I want to keep the dream alive Still benefit from a down moving your bullish or bearish on gold Well, I mean all my positions are bearish. Okay, so you're not gonna get bullish today, right? Especially with the stock up higher at least that's not how we would do it. It's not how I would do it So let's get less bearish, okay So you gotta sell something that's all premium So you got to sell the the at the money call, which is the one 30 or the one 29 call I guess the one 29 a half call would be the call that I would pick to sell But since it's a half dollar wide strike, I'd probably go to a one 29 and one three so let's X out of that And let's buy that one twenty five one you want to do one 29 I Mean you understand I'm saying it's either the one 29 or the one 30. Yeah, and you're selling about well hit confirm and send one time Now your break even on this is 127 and change. Let's just call it 128. It's below the break even of where the stock is trading out now Okay, you find are you following me? Yeah, so I still need the stock to Still want to start to go low. Well my opinion hasn't changed with GLD up 18 dollars today Well with gold up 18 dollars today It's actually got more heightened. I mean like I'm I'm more pissed But I got to be realistic, you know, I'm wrong. I'm trapped like a rat I want to get out at a little bit better price. I'm trying to save myself something Okay, okay. Yeah, let's buy back the one 23. Assume me the one 23 or 22 put that he sure to we can do it all as one trade There you go. Let's buy let's just buy the one 23 put one time to you can hold down the control key puts puts And then are we gonna be looking to roll these to august? Sometimes at the end of the day. Yes, hopefully on a down move. Yeah Yes exactly so I'm buying myself some time to be right. Let's go in two cents higher just to get filled Okay, let's do the same thing with that other call that you're short that one 22 And let's sell the one 29 again Okay I mean we're selling basically all extrinsic value. So we're selling two dollars more in premium not more in premium Less wrong in premium you know I'm saying because we have this big wide call spread That's acting like one to one with stock and now we're changing it to 50 delta's Okay, do you understand what we're I mean we're paying to get it up there. Oh, we're paying But you're already down. So what is a GLD your well you're unchanged right now But you're down 150 bucks for the day. Okay parties over yeah, it's 10 days. It's 10 days to go. Yeah, let's Let's make believe that this works out and stock is below 129 At least in the best case scenario you're up 250 bucks as opposed to just being out And looking for another trade now you might look for another trade on Wednesday or Thursday or Friday or Monday of expiration week But at least you bought yourself some time stock moves another dollar tomorrow instead of you being down $200 you'll be down $70 Okay, I mean so you're just trying you know you're just trying to stop the bleeding But still keep yourself in the game stock goes down two dollars Well, instead of being up 200 bucks, you'll probably be up 140 bucks That's all you try that's all you try to do okay, and let's buy one more of those uh one 23 puts or whatever you had up there Sure either one the one the one 22 120 let's buy the one 23 just to keep it the straddle and the other one it doesn't really matter And let's uh go up a penny or two and see what happens Perfect to confirm and send and send Good uh in GLD now you're using $1400 in buying power instead of like 26 or 2700 dollars in buying power. Okay, okay. All right last one diamonds DIA We rolled these this morning too. Okay, so let's yes So we rolled up from like the one 74 and 175 to the one 77 okay, so that got us inverted It uses more buying power now because you have more risk on both sides than you had before But that kind of stops everything that you had on and you have a profit of $185 in the diamonds You had about a profit of about $145 or $50 when you rolled it up You still have a P&O the year and they're 220 for else. That's one of the ones that you've done a little bit better Yeah, okay, so you're using $6,000 $6,500 in buying power on this trade Oh, yeah, well right you've got about a dollar 70 in extrinsic value two times Okay, okay, so $3,000 in buying power that's left right three a new Strangolin here is about three thousand dollars So we could take off the existing position and start with a string going August exactly two times and try to collect around that dollar 70-ish in premium now listen if you get a move back to 176 in the next two days Whatever we do here right now is the wrong thing But just because that's what's happened over the last four or five days that's an anomaly to me That's not like normal So I've got to stick to what brought me here for the last 30 years the last 30 as I got me here is when I'm Completely wrong. I don't lose as much and when I'm completely right I make more which you're not doing right now because we've got Too big headed in TLT which happens all the time yeah, and we got well Maybe we didn't manage our GLD probably yeah, because when we were up around 500 bucks in GLD I think somebody said to you I don't know I think somebody said to you, you know, this is the perfect way you should try to get asked But listen we were we were to I mean like going back on that we were getting out of the positions We were establishing new positions, but they were We're getting bigger in there. I mean like we had more positions on in there and a little more aggressive and Today as long as you stay mechanical and yesterday as long as you stayed mechanical and you did there's no wrong answer Only the market will validate whether your assumption was right or or Not as right. I mean closing GLD in hindsight was the right thing to do Not closing something else that you did was was the right thing to do. I mean you can't you can't go back and kill yourself on On like what you should have done and what you could have done All right, so in diamonds. Let's free up all of this buying power You know you got volatility kind of getting back up there again You know we'll start to put on new trades in august we also have to get a lot more diversified We kind of kind of got concentrated. Yeah, which is going to be hard because almost all the stocks coming out have a lot of earnings Okay, so let's do this with one trade. Let's just buy everything in in July. So let's buy the What's he got there the one? 77 puts two times and he's going to buy the one 76 calls and you're going to buy the 175 calls Perfectly, let's go up a couple pennies and just see if we can get filled and You usually get price improved anyway. Sure Beautiful you completely out of your diamond position You're up $179 you're up 184 or $5 when we first started. Okay. What are we going to do in august? Let's open up august So now let's keep that kind of a little bit of short delta that we had in the diamonds because listen You don't want to see the diamonds go lower after you just work short. Yeah, not take advantage of it But let's be less short So let's look at doing something like well on the call side. Let's try to sell like The 181 calls that's 30 delta Yeah, higher like the 15 on the on the put side exactly. So let's let's do the let's do on the put side you can do like the one Yeah, one 65 perfect perfect you learn in the game Okay, so let's go to the since the skew is to which side on the diamonds To the put side. Okay, let's go to the call side and see how wide we can get and kind of simulate a short call And then we'll use the same amount of buying power on the put side Let me show you what I mean, so so close that down for a minute and then let's go up to Okay, stop for a minute that 189 call like like like I mean I guess you can go all the way after that They're all trading for around the same thing exactly. Let's buy the 189 call So you've got about Eight dollars that we're using on the one side. Let's use about eight dollars on the other side see because the puts We're gonna have to go down 15 dollars or 18 dollars to get to that 10 cent option Well, let's keep the buying power the same for now. Okay, so let's buy like the one 57s Okay Dollar 98 what I tell you before that your extrinsic value was on the dollar 75 per that's correct So I mean we cover it here pretty much. Okay now. This is gonna move in 45 days. Yeah, this isn't gonna move nearly as quick as as our It's gonna move it's gonna move 20% of what the other one's gonna move For you and against you and if volatility contracts is actually gonna help you so let's do it two times And again, let's just try to get filled a I want to get filled for the show and let's just go down two cents or three cents What have two cents is fine see we get filled if you don't get filled will do it again Go down another penny or something or two pennies if you want Okay, so I happen to write that after he gets filled Ah perfect. Thank you. Let's go back to the monitor tab Don't bait away to form me if you can have it unbate away for a second Okay, so I happen to write down what your beta-weighted delta was just shortly before we came on the show Because I want to see how we changed everything and your Beta-weighted delta was short 154 delta's and Your theta was around 110 positive and your Vega was short 196. Let's see what we have now when we beta-weighted All right, so you're short 179 delta so it's a little bit more market maybe move the little bit Your gamma was actually negative 68. It's negative 48 your theta was positive 110 It's gone down to 88. That's not a good thing, but you bought yourself some time And you only cost yourself 20 bucks your Vega was around 196 to 200 your p enough for the day is obviously moving with the market You're up $300 and change your buying power reduction has gone from like 26 to 19 26,800 to 18,800 so you freed up $7,000 worth of buying power you really didn't cost yourself anything in delta you really didn't cost yourself anything in theta decay and you kind of smoothed out your curve plus you started the process of Some want movie from July to august or at least mitigating some of the risk that you had in the front month I don't know I think that I think that's a lot there now you have about four minutes You want to look at any end? Yeah, it's another one of our gold positions take it take it away It's only one that's down today. So I have another gdx Strattle that's you know at the 24 strike that's been killing me this any am was down about 30 cents before the before we started this episode Okay, I just want to roll it into August and go to Hopefully the 36th straddle if we can do it for you know a couple pennies as opposed to keeping the inverted position fun by me going to Perfectly good sense. So the 36 let's take a look. So the 36 yeah, you're right at that that 30 delta right yeah Okay 16 cent credits a little bit wide market. He do me a favor change you from buy from sell to buy for a quick second. Let's just see what it says So 17 cents. Okay, go back to sell All right, you're probably let's go let's go in at mid price at 17 and then you know when the show's over you can cancel and replace it Okay, yeah perfectly good sense. Yeah When you could you could certainly justify keeping the inverted strikes, but it just I don't like I don't like to keep the inverted strikes Tom does for me once I finish like like do you remember any traits from last month Some not all that all right. Yeah, you don't remember any of the good ones. You probably remember all the bad ones. Yes, mostly Okay, you're not gonna remember what strike this stuff. Most of that ones I still have on me too They never went away good point. Who comes up next. It's not Tim night who comes up next Last call you and Tom you in the grand day me in the grand day say peace peace show me some love
Video: 106 - The Ba Ts One Year Anniversary 07 06 2016.mp3
Transcript:  You know today is the anniversary. Today's our anniversary. One year. Exactly. I didn't know that. You didn't even tell me that before the show started. I had a little surprise. Well, let's go ahead and have a look. I know. I can't believe we made it this far. We haven't killed each other yet. Come on. We haven't had that type of relationship. No, no. I mean, we've had our father's son moments. Yeah. When I had to show you the... That was pretty sure. One time. Let's take a look at your account and see how it's doing on your anniversary. You're hitting it all time low. Yeah. Yeah. Today. Not much of a... You're down to $390 for the day. $340 for the year. Yesterday on the clothes, when the market rallied a little bit, you were up around $200. You were up around $300 and then that day by the end of the day, you were only up around $130. $150 or something like that. Yeah. This morning, we're up a couple of bucks, but who cares? That doesn't count, right? Nope. So what's going on? I'm getting hurt pretty much everywhere. Mainly in gold. Gold is my... That was my strong suit at the beginning of the year. That was really where I was making a lot of my profitable trades. And now it's just going against me. It's done your... Yeah, I haven't had a down-tick in there. So... And we adjusted, meaning we kind of reduced our risk in gold yesterday by about half, third to half, and some of the products. And we're going to have to a little bit more of that today. Let's bait away your position before we go on. Most of those, I mean, worked out well for us today. Well, we worked out well today because they're higher and you bought Delta. So... But it's still a net loser, right? Yeah. All right, you've got 250 short Delta. You've got about 63 Theta Theta's actually collapsing as we get closer to the expiration. And you get more in the money option. You kind of lose that Theta to K. Meaning that your positions are going further away from you. You mean they're getting worse. And your vague is about 150. I mean, I can see a flat, maybe a little bit short. Even if it's a piece 20, 90 and a half, they traded down to 20, 65, and changed this more. And so we've had a big reversal in the market. Okay. What are you going to do? Let's take a look. Some of the things that we haven't done, go to the trade page, we're going to GDX. Okay. Yeah. All right, so what do you have in GDX? We didn't talk about it ahead of time. Yeah. So you figured out we got you live. Let's open it up. We got the 24th straddle. We had a butterfly on there that we did for free. It's got no risk on it. Okay. So we're holding it. I mean, it's on the outside of the range. Two weeks ago it was below the range. So you know, So two weeks ago, getting up to $30 was like a 15% chance or something. Yeah. Maybe you. Yeah. You're going to lose. You're going to get beat every time that happens. Now that's going to happen, you know, one or two times a year in the products. Yeah. This is that time. Yeah. Okay. Gold, you mentioned how I was doing really, really good. You had a chance there to manage your whole position at like a $500 winner. You had other things kind of going against you. You had a positive P&L. You said, hey, I'm going to stick with this. Yeah. In the future, do you think you'll manage your winners a little bit more aggressively? I think so. And I think at least you say that, but you forget. I know. Yeah. So we'll see. Yeah. Listen, this is what new traders and all traders do too. We always struggle with this. We always forget about the ones that we stick with and work out for us. And we close. And we always remember the ones, you know, that we stick with and go against us. Yeah. So what do you do here? Well, the 24 straddles, what we would we would roll. The other position is it is what it is. There's nine days left. I mean, I could take it off right now and probably make 20, 25 cents on it, but. Okay. So this original position, the 24 straddle, you kind of had protection all the way up to around 30. That's why in GDX, you're down around 200 bucks, but you're down $100 today on it alone. Yeah. Because moving 73 cents. Yeah, that butterfly was giving us because it's a $2 wide butterfly. So the, you know, if it pins at 28, that would cut my loss on that in the money. Call by half just be plus you'd make $200 on the call going down. You'd be up $400, which would be a net. Yeah. If it was at 28 as opposed to being at 30, right? So. Okay. So in this position, would you have, would you do anything differently? Because you actually had two 24 straddles and you. Yeah. And we'd have. And a profit. Yeah. Which was probably good, a good move. Yeah. I mean, hindsight would have been good to take off. You know what hindsight? Forget about what the stock did. Do you think you'd do anything differently? Yeah. I think managing a more aggressively would make. Would make my life a lot easier right now. Okay. So if you learn, so if you learn something from it, then it's not a complete loss. Yeah. It's still monetarily the same amount of money loss. Yeah. Okay. So where are you going to roll this 24 straddle to? That's going to be in August. I think we're probably going to have to stay at those same strikes. Hold on one second before you click anything over there. So why would you stay at the 24 strake? You're collecting about, let's just round and say 40 cents worth of. Yeah. Because you can. 40 cents worth of extrinsic value, that's premium. And a 20 percent chance of a touch, a 10 percent chance of expiring a 24. Does that make logical sense to you? No. Okay. So where are you going to roll that 24 straddle to? I mean, we would have, we're going to be doing it for a debit if we are rolling it. So we'd probably get to close it and establish a new position. You're probably what we would do. Yeah. Well, that's all you're doing. Anytime you roll, you're establishing a new position. Now, this is not a defined risk trade. Like if it was a $1 wide or $3 wide vertical spread, we wouldn't be having this discussion. We'd be saying, you know what, we're going to let it go to full loss. It's almost a full loss now. What can you do about it? Now you have a loss. You're out about $100 or $200 on the overall position. What are you going to do with the new position? Yeah, you said let's roll it to the 24 strike, but you realize that that doesn't make sense. Yeah. So what are you going to do now? I mean, so we would roll the put and establish, we could do, we got to do a new position then. Right? I mean, okay, but keeping in mind that you want to keep the dream alive and you'd love to roll for a credit. Let's see what happens when you roll to the 26 straddle. So let's sell the 26 straddle on top of this. We're just holding down the control key. All right, so you're doing this for around a dollar debit. Now remember, you're changing your break even by $2 and you're doing it for a certain amount. So you're getting 97 cents in extrinsic value? Well, you're getting about 97 cents, right? Exactly. So we're, quote unquote, improving the position by $2 and only paying a dollar. Are you locking in a hundred dollar loss? Yeah. Yeah. But that trades over with, right? Well, you do nothing. Yeah. And you keep all the deltas. Yeah. So if the stock goes down by a dollar tomorrow, let's say the original position, the front month position, has a delta of a hundred. And this position is going to have a delta of 50. We're a little bit less. 40. Okay. The other one would make a hundred dollars. This one's going to make $40. Yeah. So did you, did you lock in a dollar loss? Nah, you locked in 60 cents less that day. Yeah. But if you keep it alive and it becomes into, it goes down to 26 in two, three weeks. Yeah. You have a net positive. But it doesn't matter that it was like where it came from. I mean, like you did the best you could. I guess you could have been more aggressive with your rolling up on the puts in hindsight. Yeah. And you could have a fair fly that protected you all up to 30, which had a 15% chance of happening at expiration. And don't catch yourself. There's still nine days to expiration. Yeah. So 28 is probably close to a 50, 50 shot or maybe 60, 40 against you. So what do you do? Yeah. So I one still got a chance. Do you go to 26? Do you go to 27? Change it to 27. See what happens. Okay. Okay. So you're going to get a buck 60. I mean, it doesn't like, like how much you're paying for it at this point. If you're not rolling to the same strikes, it doesn't matter. Do you like to understand that? Yeah. Because you're closing one and opening another. What's the probability of getting to 27? Are you looking at around a 60% chance of a touch of 30% chance 27 and change percent chance? So do you want to lean a little bit shorter in GDX or do you want to lean less short in GDX? Less short is 27. More short is 26. That's all it comes down to. But at least you're collecting that dollar in premium. I probably say to go to the 27 because that jives with butterfly and the rest of my gold position is... Listen, it's six of one half dozen of another. And the stock will validate whether it's the right thing to do or not. The wrong thing to do would be rolling to the 24 strike for 40 cent credit. Yeah, 35 cent credit. Yeah, that doesn't give us. That doesn't really change anything. That's correct. Let's go in at 160 debit and he... I'm sorry, 155 debit less. Less of a debit, thank you. And then you can change it when we're done. Okay. He confirmed a sentence sentence. Okay. NEM. You're still right where we are. Yeah, I missed the boat on that one yesterday. Well, we were supposed to roll both of these. GDX and NEM. But for some reason you got too busy. Yeah. Well, sometimes things happen. I don't know. Okay. Got busy on the... Alright, so what do you do here? I mean, we... So let's close up the strikes for a moment. Close up the month's apologize. Okay, do you see anything kind of funky when you look at the volatility on the right-hand side? Yeah, you've got... I mean, you've got it July with 16 days, July with 23 days. So you've got... Yeah, you've got a spike there. So there's probably earnings or... Right, earnings. Which is something you don't have to worry about in GDX or GLD or XME or anything like that. But NEM, you do. So you have earnings at NEM. Yeah. So that change your rolling technique or something that you'd have to do. Yeah, I mean, you have to consider that in the role because you're going to have that... That binary event that happens. Okay, so do you care about NEM, like you care about SPY, IWM, maybe Apple and some other... No. Okay, so let's open up July and let's stay in July and say, hey, you know what? We're going to have to get out of this. We've done about $150, you know? $50 today on it, down $150 bucks. So with that in mind, what do you role and how do you do it here? So we go even more inverted and just go to the Atomoney. What? That's all you can do. So now it becomes, do you want to do the 42 put, 41 put or 40 put? There's no wrong answer. The 42 put is going to give you about 95 cents in extrinsic value. The 41 puts are going to give you about $1.25. The 40 puts are only going to give you around 80 cents in extrinsic value. But you'll have $1.15 in stock movement if you're right over the last nine days. Over the last nine days. I'll try to go to the 41. Okay, so the 41 put five by me. There's no wrong answer. So let's sell the 41, 36 put spread. Let's just go in at $1.18 and you can change it when we're done that on. Just so you can give you a little bit more time because I know I'm spraying these on you. And I'll take that extra long Delta in gold because the rest of my positions are so short. So going at the money here and picking up another five long Delta is. You'll hope you're wrong. Yeah, exactly. If that one's wrong, then I'm making three times as much on my other gold. Isn't she? Let's go to that right now. GLD. Okay, now you start to think. I mean, we always try to reduce our Delta by one third or one half. When we're in trouble, we always try to get rid of units like you did yesterday in GLD. You have one short put down there at five or six cents. Yeah, you probably should cover it at some point. Yeah, I don't have to cover right now. It's not using any buying power because you're using all the buying power on the call side. But you should close it. You're leaving. Yeah. Okay. So you're short two of the 129 calls. Those we just did yesterday, we bought the 125 129 call spread. It was a stock up 76 cents. It was a. I mean, it's kind of a good trade. Stinks because the overall position you wanted it to go lower. So you're short. But that in the money call would have moved. 63 cents. 77 cents. Exactly. And we collected, you know, that's probably the only $60-70 maybe $100. Yes. So instead of being down 350, you'd be down 450 or 500 bucks. Exactly. Doesn't make you feel any better. No. No. But it's a good consolation size. You're long one of the 135 calls. That's a couple of. And you long two of the 138 calls. That's three total calls that have value. And you're only long. You're only short two that are in the money. So you're actually long an extra call in here. OK. Which one you're going to sell? Because you don't need it. Yeah. And I'm not going to be long it. Oh, that's tough. Probably the 132. Ah, come on. Wait, it's like kissing your sister. I know for a dollar. I know for a dollar. Who cares? Cell the 135s. 42 cents. Oh, it's it. Take advantage. Take advantage of the 79 cents that the stock is moving. I mean, it's probably moved to dime today. Big deal. OK. Let's do 42 cents. Is that the mid price? Let's try 42. And if you don't get filled, you'll whack it at 41 immediately. If not sooner. Hidden bids. Hidden bids is right. You got filled at 42. How lucky are you? Feel better? Yeah. Scraping a penny there really makes you feel that much better. Awesome. It does though. When you hear that thing and you know that you got like a better little bit. A little bit. Not a lot. Now you want the stock to really go down. So you don't have to have two cents. Good for you. Nice. We get price I'll put in there too. You really wanted to. In GLD. We could. Now you just think about your two roles that you just did. You were kind of aggressive on those. So we'll sit in GLD. But you're right. You could. Very good. Yeah. You're not using any more bites. If you wanted to get less short. But the stock is up. Yeah. The stock was down. And you're holding the short delta. I say, OK, do it into the weakness. Sell it put. All right. TLT. Let's open up July. Again, you're trying to massage it. You're trying to be less wrong or more right. However you want to look at it. Yeah. OK, so in TLT. No earnings to worry about. You're short to July 41 calls. We rolled up some yesterday. TLT is up again. Small today. All right. So you've got the 41. It looks like what? The 4150 call spread one time. And then you've got a put spread well below. Right. I think it's a long put. Perfect. So you don't have to do anything with that. Yeah. OK. So what are you going to do here? I mean, we could either roll it. We could sell a put against it. I mean, there's roll or it's roll or stay. We're sell put against it. I guess you're good. Yeah. Nine, nine days off. So what's the IV rank in TLT? I think it's still high. It is high. OK. So it's part of the it's part of the it's part of the equation. OK. You tell me stocks 143 just made a new high today. It was 143. A new high today. What do you want to do? Stay is the most aggressive. Which is basically just your short 60 shares of stock in here. Because of the delta on that is around 60. Yeah. So you can stay. You can roll, which would get you short around 30 shares of stock. Instead of 60. OK. It's not the first. Yeah. It's really. You want to sit and wait for a down day. OK. OK. It seems like it never happens. But you waited for that. Yeah. Like like like if you already crash is tomorrow and goes down let's say you roll this. Yeah. And CLT goes down $3 tomorrow. You'll kick yourself in the button say you know what my timing stinks. But I was mechanical and I did the right thing. If you don't roll and it goes up $3 you save yourself. I stood there like a deer in the headlights and you just feel miserable with yourself. Because you knew the right thing to do and you didn't do it. So what do you do now? So let's roll it. Is that my voice of reason? Yeah. Let's buy the 41 50 call spread. You can do this all with one click. Right. Sell the 50. And let's go to August. And we're going to sell the 41. 50 call spread. Not using any more buying power. 73 cent credit. I don't know if you're going to be able to get filled to 73 cents. But let's go in at 73 cents. You'll probably have to move it a little bit to get filled. But we'll see. Okay. Okay. Go back to TLT from then open up August. Because you're out of July now. I mean what we said we were going to do last week is we're going to roll most of our positions. That's what you're doing. You're rolling most of your positions. So you have that sort of plan and you implement it. You would wish that things had been a lot different but they weren't. Okay. So we're going to make sure two call spreads that are in the money. You have go to the other side. You have no puts really right. You've got that one put that's down there on the 130 line. Let's use no extra buying power. And since you said hey we can sell a put spread in the front month. Let's sell a put spread in the back month. So what we've done is instead of doing in the front month, which we know can be iffy with nine days to go duration over direction. We're doing the back months. We're doing it right. We rolled the one side. It will eventually roll the one side. Now you want to sell the put spread. Let's sell the let's roll that one 30 put up to what strike? To the 30 delta one 38 make sure one 30 out of there. Sure one 38 or one 37 was going to be the one that I would pick. So you want to do one 38. Yeah fine by me. So we're going to sell the one 38. Let's go in two cents higher one cent higher and then he can change it later on. It confirm and send and send. Perfect. Okay. So that leaves us with we've worked out GDX. We've worked out any M we've worked out. Did we do XME yet? No, XME. XME the the premium in this in this stock does not move whatsoever. It's I mean it's hovered between I think we did this originally it was a 2024 strangles a one standard deviation strangle. And it's been floating around there the entire time the premium just does not come out of this stock. It's of these positions it really hasn't moved. I agree with 30 sound winner at best at at any point in time. I agree with you yet you're up 71 dollars in XME in GDX. No not in XME. No. Oh yeah. We might have done like another trade in there earlier in the year. Yeah. We always sell premium. Yeah. So you're up 71 dollars in there GDX you're down $200 in GLD you're down $80 in. So it hasn't been a bad product for you. No. But I agree with you it's tough one to make a couple of it's not one that I plan on rolling. Okay. So if you don't plan on rolling it what do you do now? I mean it's going to be one that. So you're short about 60 delta's in XME. I got nine days off to go. Okay. You hold for a down day and take it off the board. Do you think about rolling up the put? You go from 60 short delta's to about 30. So the 25 to go inverted there? Yeah. I mean I don't know I'm asking you. I mean you couldn't go up to the 24 for 15 cents. No going up to the 24 would not make sense. If you wanted to bend the rule and go to and by bend the rule I just mean that typically the half dollar wide strikes aren't as liquid as the dollar wide strikes but you look there it's three cents versus two cents. Yeah. Not that big of a deal if you want to go up to the 24's and a half to 24 and a half for you know 27 cents you could or you do nothing. I'm just playing devil's advocate with you. Again there's no wrong answer. Stocks up 50 cents today and you're down 25 cents. Make 23 cents. It makes perfect sense with the amount of delta you have. Yeah. Meaning that you were short around 50 or 60. Stocks up 50 cents. So you're down 25 cents. So almost half as much. If you roll up stock goes down 30 cents instead of you know making $30 you'll probably only make $15. So if you're really thinking about getting out of this trade in the coming days on a down move and taking advantage of that one to one or 60 40 delta. Movement that you'll have because you're short 60 delta then I say stay. Yeah. If you're thinking about that you know maybe you don't get filled on your GLD and I know this is mining but maybe you can fill on your GLD. Maybe you don't you know maybe you become more aggressive on those. Mm-hmm. Then you stay with this one. You know it's all kind of massaging it. It's all you're doing. Okay. So what are you going to do? I mean I think we stick with that. I don't. Like I said there's no wrong answer. A stock will validate whether you're right or wrong. Yeah. But your mechanics are sound. Taking into consideration everything else you did. If this was the only position you had on I would tell you it's time to roll to the next month. Roll up the put or get out. Just sitting there with the delta as a stand-alone trade if this was the only trade you had on. Doesn't make sense. It's not logical. It's just a flip flip at the coin. Yeah. So let's go back to the monetary. If we could all the trades that you're that you have kind of set in your working orders are still using up buying power. Your buying power when we started this was around $19,400 or $19,600. So you only use a couple hundred dollars maybe close to a thousand dollars in buying power. Yeah. When you look at your positions there. What's the one glaring thing that you see when you just from a from a high point of view from a I guess would that be a macro view? It's the most buying power 6,700 tomorrow. Tomorrow you're going to have to do something about your buying power reduction in spy. Yeah. The best way to do that will be to reduce units and roll to August. Yeah we missed that this morning and we were down a little bit. Well we were down a lot. We were down to $20 from here. Yeah. But that'll be tomorrow's topic. Okay. Yeah. So tomorrow we roll all SPY. All right. Yeah. I think that'll be the last of that should be the last you should be done. It's correct. And you're off on Friday. Yep. So you've got to get done by tomorrow. Yep. Okay. Who comes up next? No Tim Knight. So I don't know what are we doing. Nailed it. Well you guys are up in. You got another five minutes. No this is it. We need time to switch this. Everything we're going to get over there. Got Tom and Tony next. These clowns. So we some love. Peace.
Video: 107 - When To Throw In The Towel Vxx 07 12 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think we're back where I start that versus bat. How are you son good happy birthday? To my man. Thank you very much appreciate that it feels good. Yeah, thank you How's your birthday going? How's my birthday going? Oh for you unchanged Pretty much a little bit of yeah, you're up like don't bucks But yeah, yeah, well, let's take a look at your account. That's pretty good Let's bet away to two if we could but if you want to know the real trading of the day was it's been crappy There's not much to trade There's not much to do. I've been closing out junkie out of the money long positions Trying to shave some pennies off and So what did you do there on TLT? It looks like you bought a put for two cents in GLD it looks like you bought a put for three cents do you change your buying power with that in GLD? Don't think so right no those were both like deep out of the money put far out of the money for out of the money puts that were Just trading for a couple pennies and then took off the risk I think what GLD I did actually take off some buying power like 200 bucks and buying power fine And then cues you sold a call that you were long that was probably yeah Protective call or something that you did to reduce buying power Yeah, you hate it when it's a couple of days before expiration that you could sell that call for anything Yeah, cuz that means that the rest of my shorts that I had at that time were are probably not doing as you've rolled them by now with 45 days closer to 45 days for expiration right and then SPY also looks like you Yeah, so don't let college in there on force. Okay, great. So what do we do now? Even the S is piece of $17 basically everything's at a new high I WM up almost one and a half percent with everything else up between a half and one percent I WM's up one and a half percent big move in there gold has helped you today. Yeah, gold has helped me bonds have helped me a little bit So those two things have never helped you in the past as we go in the same way as equity, so correct Correct, okay, so so it saves you see got kind of a Mulligan today volatility unchanged so so what do you look to do do you look to? Like what do you look to do so for the first time let me free you in different way for the first time like in GLD You have a chance to I don't manage from from the positive side. Mm-hmm. So why don't you take a look at that like you've rolled up so many things in in SPY rolled up so many things in I WM Let's try to do something from strength. Okay, that's the way it's supposed to work out. Yeah. Yeah Let's look at GLD if we could And you have nothing in the front month If you can open that up you can just show that there's nothing there. It's really just out of the money options. It'll worthless Okay, let's go to August All right, so you're basically short two call spreads in GLD You've got a nice move down of a dollar 90 you're looking at one and a half percent of the day We rolled these yesterday Roll these yesterday probably cost you about 30 cents No more than that with If they had almost like close to four days till expiration and it's down two dollars right now You've got to think that it's it would move Similar to that. I mean they were in the money at that bra in GLD you rolled it There's a 2939 and you put the 29 call yeah, just to make you feel better You did for a dollar 35 credit all right, you can now do it mid price of the dollar 45 credit Okay, so didn't didn't hurt you didn't hurt you as much as you thought right okay? Well, I'm just I mean I'm just trying to show you like you know Even though it's it's four days ago. They're gonna hold some proof of the right at the money So so does that make rolling even more prudent? Of when in this case in yeah, well, I mean you waited it out as long as you could go now You're right if we stay below 129 now 127 and a half over the next two or three days Obviously that front month is gonna expand but just like a butterfly They don't really collapse as much until the very last minute everybody makes this is not an easy game. Yeah So it takes takes discipline part of that discipline right now might be to neutralize some of your delta in GLD Yeah, that doesn't mean you have to sell two put spreads. Let's sell one tool put spread Okay, you how wide is your call spread ten points? Okay, well, let's look at a one One spread ten dollar wide spread where would you go? Go to the 30 delta the one 24 124 123 okay 124 and then you buy what the 114? Yep, okay Do you want to go Here like close it up just for a minute or just minimize it? I mean do you want to go to the 117 and save some buying power and and cost yourself nine cents? Save yourself 300 bucks. Yeah, we can do that right? I mean we we we have the buying power to go the whole way But what's coming up so like here so so that's a great discussion so When the market was when volatility was was increasing how hard was it for you to find trades? I mean it was hard because my Positions were going against me I mean the the buying power I was using on those in the money spreads was was increasing so so that while while volatility was increasing You found it pretty easy to put on new trades you got to a point where you exhausted your buying power Yeah, but they're limited by how much money you have in your account. Yes, but it was easier to find trades Right, it was things to do yeah, even when you had to adjust and roll up you felt Confident that you could do something else with that money Yeah, and it and it came to fruition right? I mean your account was up 1500 bucks or a little bit more after being down to thousand dollars Now you're fighting it the other way. It's a much harder fight I mean the market going higher and volatility contracting but how much buying power are you using now? A third of your account right or maybe a little bit more where before you're using a hundred percent of your account Are a little bit more than a hundred percent now you're only using a third now you have more delta risk than you had before too That's how it works. I mean when you're getting tested you should have the least amount of contracts on and when you're finding new trades You should have more money at work and you should have the confidence when volatility is expanding that volatility contract now Now's the hardest time so you got to stay a lot more mechanical use less money Keep your delta's a little bit more towards the degree that you feel the market's gonna go or revert to and you move on You just keep pushing the envelope forward listen We're at record highs and you've been carrying short delta's since name well since since 2040 or 50 yeah, we're 2150 or 2146 You got a hundred points in the e-mail and s&p's you've been carrying short delta's you down nine hundred bucks You make that up. Yeah, just by buying a future something like yeah Just kidding. Yeah, all right, so let's go and sell this at 111 if we don't get filled you can you can fix it in a little bit Okay, VXX. This is a good child. Let's look at a bad child. Yeah, all right. Let's go to VXX if we could In VXX you're short the 21 put yeah, you're down about 550 bucks on the trade the stock is what what is that about nine dollars lower so you lost half as much As if you had bought stock at say 21 if you short the 21 put that means you sold that 21 put when the stock was like 24 or 25 so you lost 500 and something dollars on a $15 move Stinks yeah Okay, well you were wrong. You lost a little bit less still stinks. Okay. What do you do now? Wash You want us do you want to say goodbye? Yeah, still do puts better at 111 you want to be dumb of VXX Yeah, I mean there's no point in rolling this put spread Okay, so let's look at let's look at we can always buy the the one that call 21 Yeah, do that in a minute just click on buying the 120 buying the 21 put and Let's go to August for a second and take a look now. You don't have to make this trade We didn't talk about ahead of time. Let's open up August. Okay, so stop for a minute You certainly can't sell the one twenty one put. I mean I guess you could for a 10 or 14 cent credit It's directly stock, but could you sell the 13 put? Yeah, and and have it could you sell could you sell the 12 put? Mm-hmm Yeah, is that something you you think you might do? Yeah, I mean so so in VXX you're down 550 bucks if you sold the 12 put it went to zero you're still down 450 bucks Does it does it does it stink? Yeah, okay, but I mean It yes, so what I'm trying to say is if you can't find trades other places and you still like the idea of volatility is that something you can do even though you're short to 20 One put a lot of people in the same situation They're short a deep in the money put whether it's two dollars in the money or ten dollars in the money And they don't understand like what they can do like should they roll to exactly the same strike you certainly can't Me personally I want to try to collect at least a dollar now a dollar on a 12 dollar stock is Completely different than trying to collect a dollar on a 60 or 70 dollar stock on a 60 or 70 dollar stock You know I could be further out of the money on a 12 dollar stock you can have to be right at the money or even slightly in the money Yeah, well, what do you want to do? Well, let's go slightly in the money because we're I mean fine. We're taking the directional Fine play on it fine. So are you reducing risk or are you locking in a loss? Locking in a loss and reducing risk. Yeah, both. Yeah, it's kind of a trick question because well I mean we'll go and buy a long call here. Well you do put as well When we you could just go with the naked, but I guess you at 13 dollar stock you might as well just go with the naked put. I mean it's Yeah, okay very good. Let's sell a 13 put something like you VXY where your triple leveraged maybe Then you would have to do something different you'd have to buy something out there for a nickel or something like that Yeah, let's go in at a lower debit and he can change it and think about it when the show is over so let's go in it 2020 even as I'm sorry 720 yes, thanks it confirmed send a send thank you Twitter Yeah, what do you want to do amazing? I mean Twitter you're down 260 dollars. Yeah, it's amazing that we've you were down 150 dollars at the at the lows. Yeah, you're long. What do you want to do? Well, I have a cover call. That's okay. What it is okay? So do you so do you keep it with about 80 cents left to make or do you get out of it? I mean I would yeah keep it. Why wouldn't why would we get out of it right now? You've cut your loss in half. I'm just asking the question. There's no there's no There's no more things coming up to it does I'm not on the 26th. Okay So do you keep it or do you Stocks may go to a chart Twitter for a quick listen. This is what traders have to decide of course of course Okay, so that's what the stock's done over the last 10 days is up almost 15% the last 10 days alone probably up almost 20% from the lows Yeah, it's tough decision. So okay, well, I guess you'll keep us in suspense And you'll decide what you want to do some other time. Well, there's still 80 80 cents worth of premium I mean why wouldn't I keep it worth the premium 39 days you got to go through earnings. Yeah Okay, listen, yeah, I get it Okay, sounds good to me I WM very quickly and I know I'm running late Nutrade what's the 19 trading I maybe I know you can't If you roll up then you're putting on more risk. Yeah, I WM What's the valve differential between 7 August? I think it's about a buck and a half one and a half percent maybe a little bit less Set you got 19 and change August you've got almost 18 Okay calendar spread usually around two percent or a little bit more. Yeah, let's do a diagonal spread Let's take a look at buying The set 122 put we always go a strike or two in the money and We'll sell the August put which is one of two strikes out of the money maybe like the 18 Okay, we're gonna put on a new trade right? I mean you're gonna use 200 and Whatever it's gonna be 200 and let's say 265 It was just around two yeah, it's a little expensive. Let's go let's go down around 260 I looked at this before was 258 maybe the E-mini S-peat another E-mini S-peat is up 60 and change all right Well, you'll go in a 260 see if we get filled we don't get filled and we'll look at something else cool You're good. Yeah, you sure? Mm-hmm. This is markets making new highs and you're yeah, we're right there I mean, but you're still near down lows. Yeah, I know still in the game though Not for long your attitude who goes up next? Tim night next, please
Video: 108 - Getting Short Bonds With Tbt 07 13 2016.mp3
Transcript:  I Think you're back when I start beverage is bad. How are you son? Okay? It's boring man Yeah, you mean he has a piece of a dollars that better than being unchanged. No, okay. No It was flirting it like down a dollar at one point today. It was yeah down a couple dollars actually we're down Three four tree four You move down to about six or seven one point. Yes, Tom said that So 100% chance we'd be read today On the market so You doubting the creator no never okay good Your future depends on yeah to keep my job. Let's take a look into your account you're down Was I say 200 and 207 dollars? Oh? Down a thousand dollars for the for the year so far How do you feel? crappy not good you're in the you're in the comma club. I know on the other side comma and parentheses. Yeah, yeah, that's not the club you want to be in we make more parentheses for you And everybody's comedian. Are you sure 200? Let's look at your overall portfolio before we get to a trade you're sure 211 delta's and you're short 100 Vega Mark is at new highs Are you okay with that extra delta with I mean 200 200 short delta is not that Out of my realm. Yeah, we want to be I like no no you've had a cup you've had four hundred delta's as probably as your max four five As you max lack closer to the exploration. We're all completely out of July now, right? So it's a lot of delta compared to what you have on I mean you should be 50 short delta. Yeah, so your four times as much As what you should have 50 to 100 Yeah, we should have ten or 15 e many points down and that's probably at 50 delta 10 or 15 points up Yeah, I mean okay or 300 Oh, I don't know what that well what I'm trying to get you to say is I guess at market highs And volatility at its low. Yes Holding some extra delta is what it is that I'm that I'm then I'm willing to take that extra risk That's what I want to hear you say. Yeah, because then is your account you own it. Uh-huh, okay. Yeah, so you're all right Yes, okay You're got one filled order. What is that? Uh closed out of the FXC butterfly would paid like what to a five for it. I mean bitty sense made 50 cents on it. How does that how's that feeling you down a thousand you trying to make 50 bags Feels like not that that feels Feels like I wish I still had that position on because it's hard to To wrong wrong attitude No, it feels good to ring the register, but I mean no wrong attitude wrong you stay to the program No, I get that I get you can't have a butterfly on what was it a five dollar wide butterfly Is that what it was you can have a five dollar wide butterfly on thinking that you know I'm gonna put this on I'm gonna make five dollars on I'm gonna make two fifty on it total. I'm gonna make two hundred dollars Or I'm gonna make a hundred and seventy five dollars on it you put that butterfly on looking to make fifty or a hundred bucks You made fifty or a hundred bucks you run with it you go Yes, I think the the disheartening part is that it's hard to find a place to go re deploy that I guess that you got earnings coming up you got volatility contracting and using the least amount of money that you've been using Since the beginning of your show almost a year ago. Yeah Listen, you're doing everything right market hasn't accounted you you've been directionally wrong I've been directionally wrong. So you're not getting paid Just three weeks ago you read account highs you were up fifteen hundred bucks. Yeah, you've had a twenty five hundred I'll turn around that should annoy you more than anything else. Yeah Should have had that like not liquid like the liquid eight button, you know, just like the red button Ding ding ding like customers used to ask at toss if we would come up with like a close-all button Seriously like just close every day button just like exactly exactly. Yeah Could he use it back then? What are we gonna do today? Let's take a look at the trade page Let's go to TBT if we could what is TBT maybe we could look at a at a uh chart of it first I forgot the market unchanged basically up a little bit down up thirty two Russell down to you mean S the P's up to bonds up one oh four TBT is an inverse ETF to the bonds is the bonds go higher this goes lower Inverse so it's going it's going down. Yep. Okay with bonds going high volatility Looks higher low relative to itself tie high 38% Basically never got to have its own way near zero there right so 38 seems relatively high for me I've you percentile 65% I've you rank 38% okay? Maybe someone we can do in here. Yep. You like to take risk right? Yeah, you want to get directional You're ready short bonds in TLT. Yeah, so getting long TBT would be Same kind of correlation there right. I don't know if you call it a complimentary position Yeah, because it's the same direction But it's not a hedge position. No, it's not like If you were to sell a put in here that would be the same thing as selling a call in TLT Okay, all right. Well, I've got a special one for you because you're a risk taker. Yeah, you're over here Tell him me yesterday what you guys in here with the cameras of let's just buy some oil Futures will future down a dollar eight eight Those Thursday I wanted to buy the little oh Thursday you want to buy a Friday you want to sell them Monday you want to buy a So Thursday wanted to buy them Monday wanted to sell them Today's Wednesday, which one do you want to buy nothing just sit such a liar. All right, so what can we do here? I mean we could sell a put we could do something fancy with maybe a put and Call spread maybe that's good. That's exactly the direction. I'm going. Okay, so So what put would you think about selling? I mean if you've got to go to the 29 or the 30 The 29 being the 30 Delta or if we're going to get aggressive with that we go go to 30. Okay, so What are call spreads going to be so let's see what we're getting for the call spread What you're getting hold on a second. Hey click on selling the 29 put for just a minute. Let's see how much buying power uses Okay, so use a $1,600 so this is like triple leverage. Well, it's a well, it's definitely leverage, right? Yeah, okay So selling a naked put probably doesn't work so we're gonna have to do a wide put spread right yeah Because if you look down a little bit right if you go to the 25 puts or the 26 puts or 27 puts you can go three four dollars wide and only use four hundred dollars by selling the The one put you'd be giving up seven eight ten cents But you're saving yourself twelve hundred bucks. So we're gonna do a wide puts bread. Okay, okay? All right It's just the first thing okay, so let's just say for argument six you're selling that spread for 50 cents So let's do the 29 26 just for argument six. Okay, all right now. What do you gonna do? And that's just a that's just a simulated simulated short put okay now what do you do and then go With a long cost okay, so it's not okay perfect. You're a hundred percent correct You said let's see what we get for the Call spread I thought you thought you were saying that maybe you want to do a jade lizard type trade Yeah, you could yeah, but you certainly could but as you can see from that one put alone you can't get a lot for it You don't have that skew to the downside that you need yeah, okay? All right, so what are you gonna do? I'm seeking a long call spread which you'd start with Like long the first out of the money option, which would be the 31 okay And what do you sell um It's not a lot of premium here. I mean I would go to the 33 and okay like it's 3 cent debit. Let's see what it is Okay, so you got a five cent you got a five cent debit which is okay I mean prefer a credit. I get that you buying the 31 33 call spread so What should break even on 31 let's minimize that for a quick second So chance of stuck in the 31's around 38 percent Let's just call it 35% if we could amongst friends from its family, right? Yeah, so do you want to be long a spread that has a 35 percent Chance of being in the money not really not really no Well, which one is your answer no or not really no you don't you don't okay So why would you say pick that spread? It's the first out of the money option. I okay, so we're gonna have to go at the money or in the money, right? Yep, okay So change it what are you gonna do now? Uh, I should say goodbye to the 30 then perfect Okay, now what do you do? You gotta keep it 33 and now you gotta move that down. Okay to try it 32 31 I mean 32 or 31 it's this all right. Let's try the 32. Yeah Okay, now you've got a 31 cent debit So now you're buying the 30 32 call spread for 31 Sense with the naked put right? Mm-hmm. Does that make sense to you? So what else so what else could you do Sell the call spread I mean you can move the put up monkey What to the 31 32 Oh to the 30 put you're short to the 29 put move it to the 30 put Oh, okay, and pick up another yeah, all right. Okay. Well pick up another. Let's see what another yeah, ah Look at you As long as I'm around you'll always be second best you know that Did you try and kill me? Mm-hmm. Do you see much custard we have out there? Yeah It's very nice of a of a customer sent us client viewer watching um Voyer yeah, all right, so what does this look like you're buying the 30 32 call spread selling the 30 26 put spread we would call this a super bowl mm-hmm right because you're selling a put spread that's a bullish position You're buying a call spread that's a bullish position Limited amount of capital he confirm it sent one time Using $400 in buying power max profit of $200 we would look at that's the width of the call spread plus the credit That's correct. We would be looking to make a hundred dollars on this somewhere between 50 and a hundred bucks. Yeah I don't know how's it sound to you. Let's go with it. What's the probability of success on this trade? Uh, it's probably like 60 Uh, you can argue that it's a It's a little bit above 50 between 50 and 60 It's probably a if you had to argue probably around a 55% probability of success. Okay, we would just call it 50 50 I don't think you're gonna be able to get filled at a nine cent credit Maybe you could fill the 10 cent credit or 11 cent credit Maybe you filled it only a four cent credit or two cent credit, but let's go in above the market at 10 cents And he confirmed and send and send And we'll let that work and you can change it when the show is over but let's look what we did here We realized that selling a naked putt was something that wasn't a good use of capital on its own It used almost $600 better ways to use $16 we could have moved up just to put to the 30 strike and collected And use the $1600 and collected around 95 cents that would have been okay on a street shot Here we took a little bit more risk almost $400 worth of risk But we saved $1200 in buying power to have that same $100 price target that we're looking to make Which way do you want bonds to go tomorrow when you get filled on this today down And tbt will do go up Who comes up next got Tim night next show me some love You
Video: 109 - Wdis Bat Vs Bat 10 24 2016.mp3
Transcript:  Nick you were back, that was bad, how are you son? Did alright, having a solid day, kind of a slow day for my account. Yeah, kind of a slow day. Let's take a look at it. You're down 57 bucks before you bait away to anything. Your year to date P&L, you're up $4,400 and $11. All those numbers might not add up to $4,400 but the older version of toss, the one that we use has a cumulative year to date P&L for all the trades that you have opened and closed. So that's a true P&L year to date. Unbait-a-weighted, your Q position, short 100 delta, that's kind of our bell that goes off that we need to do something when we get to around 100 delta. That's our own risk tolerance that we've decided for our account. We'll be able to out there has to choose their own and then try to stay as mechanical as they can. Can you bait away to for me? You short 218 delta versus 374 delta, maybe leaning a little bit short, but pretty much that 2 to 1 or 1 to 2 negative relationship, negative 100 delta versus negative 200 Vegas, what we strive for, you're right there. That's a good example of why we use beta-weighting is because if you look at my non-bait-a-weighted delta, you can see that 181 to 218 isn't a huge difference, but when you see stuff like this GDX position and TLT where those beta, those delta's are sizeable delta's unbait-a-weighted, but when you put them all to the same common denominator, it really changes what you're looking at. Sure, it becomes a very small delta. Click on it and see what GDX comes out to from 48, it comes basically less than 1. Exactly. No, that's an excellent point. You know we're going to look at something in the triple-q since that's where you have the most of your delta coming from, and it's too much for our liking in our account. Before we go to that, you're using $23,700, almost $100 of a $30,000-$1000 account. You're at the end of the cycle, especially if putting on new trades in the front month, you really should be looking at D's. There's a D's trade that you did in IWM. Can we go to it for a quick second? Sure. And I did. One field order closed out my axel. Oh, good for you. Long puts right in. I hadn't noticed that. You bought that two weeks ago Friday or something. Yeah, when you were gone and then you said you hated it. You made money on it. Is that the point you're trying to make? That was a quick one. Quick one. Let's go to IWM before we go to the queues. Very cute. I know you have a strangle on in here. I think you. OK, so you're basically a 15 delta on each side, one standard deviation strangle, that you're up about $0.35 on if my memory serves me correctly. OK, I probably did it for about a buck 50-ish, about $0.47. I could tell exactly what you did for it in a moment, but we can get to that for a second. What I'd like to do in here is buy some wings and maybe save ourselves some money in there. I mean, with 53 days left to go, buying $20 worth of premium to define our risk, but really reduce our buying power. It might be beneficial to us. So can we maybe take a look at buying the 100-put? And again, I'm just going $10 lower. You pick a number. It takes about $16, $17, $1800 for a one-latch strangle in IWM. We could go $10 wide. Yeah, you could go a little. I would go to $135. I was going to the first one that was offered at $0.05. What's that trading for? Around $0.21. And if you put that in for $0.21, you'll save yourself about $1,000 in buying power. It costs you less than $0.50 a day. I think it's probably the thing to do. That strangle you sold at $1.47. So why don't you take a look at selling that $1.29 call again or buying it either way out if you want to do it. And then let's go to the other side. So you sold at $1.49 trading for $1.47 trading for $106. So you're up $1.43. $1.43. OK, good. So now we'll buy those wings. So what we had planned on doing all along, if you don't get filled with $0.21, you'll go up to $0.22. Let's go into the cues and see what we can do there. I think what those wings is that you can use those. If we end up taking that spread off for 50%, those wings come into play in other trades. So it's not just adding it to that position as a, you know, it's not decreasing by profit. No, no, no, no. No, 53 days to go. I mean, yeah. And volatility low. Exactly. I mean, you did the original trade of volatility was over 15.5 now. Volatility is under 15. So OK, let's go to the cues. If you could change that for me, I'm going to go to the front month of November. Open it, you know, November position. OK, so you're short for calls versus for puts. Your calls are a little bit close than you put. You put to have a 12 delta that's, you know, typically with 23 days to go, 25 days to go, you know, the train for around 335 cents, you certainly could leave it, but we need to reduce delta somehow or at least do something. So I had something different. Normally what we would do is we would take those four contracts and move them up to strikes, maybe to the 15, maybe to the 16. So I've got kind of, I like to reduce units if possible to now. You might say, why don't you want to reduce units to the upside? Well, we both know that as volatility, as the market goes higher volatility contracts, those calls don't seem to move quite as quick as puts do to the downside. So I was thinking if we buy back four of those 113 puts, OK, and we sell up to three of, say, the 117 puts, which are going to have that 30 delta. Now do two for a moment, three is fine. It doesn't matter. Whatever. So you do two for a small credit, that will save you, if you do two, same amount of buying power, no, excuse me, same amount of credit received, you actually receive another 20 cents. I'll call that basically paying for all your commissions and everything else like that for the trade, but you'll save yourself about $1,600 in buying power. If you had one more put, it's OK. You'll collect a dollar 30 in premium and you'll reduce your buying power only by about two or $300. OK. So I mean, that wouldn't be much of a reduction to go with a $200 buying power reduction. It's not. No, to buy reduction is not a lot, but it saves you one unit. Listen, how about this? I'll put in percentages. It saves you 25% of your positions unit to the downside. Now all of a sudden, it sounds like a lot bigger. I mean, somebody who's trading small or one, two, three, and you're accumulating four or five contracts, one contract doesn't seem like a lot. It saves you units, which are the ones that can come back and buy you. So it saves you 25% of the units. Plus it gives you $130 in premium. That's something that you normally would get on a strangle that's 53 days away. And you'd be using an additional $1,500 or $2,000 in buying power. Here you're actually reducing by two or $300. I don't know. It'll give you about, why don't you right click and analyze it and see what it shows everybody at home. Open up your price list as if you could on the top there. OK. And now, unclick it for a moment. All right. So there's your short 100 delta's, which we had before. You got $4,300 in buying power. Now click it. Now you're reducing your delta by about half, 40%, your theta goes from around 14 to half 15 to about 17. And your buying power goes from 43 to 41. I don't know. You look at that gray area on your risk profile there. That's basically the one standard deviation move for this time frame of expiration, which is 1119. You're still pretty much covered to the downside in there. I like the three versus four. Unclick it or make it go down to two and let's just see what we can. OK. So now you go from 100 delta to 90 delta's. Not really that big of a deal. So you got to unclick that credit received because your credit received not going to be that big. There you go. Now you're looking at $27,000 in buying power effect. So great, great, great thing here. You're still outside that gray area too, which is not that important to me, but I'm just point to get out to you. And the gray area is the one standard deviation move, go into expiration. If buying power was in a real issue, I think two by four works. Sure. Since you're not, I don't think you have really a compelling trade. We're going to look at gold 5050 shot on buying a call spread or EWZ buying a put spread 5050 shot. I'd much rather take the money and or save the money and use it here and go three by four. I agree. Is it cool? Yeah. I've already still low, but you know, you're rolling up reducing units. I don't know. I just think it's the. So why don't you hit confirm and send? Excuse me. No, no, go back, go back, go back, create duplicate order. And now you like to. Well, it was just 30 bid for a moment ago. Why don't you go into 31 cents in the higher credit you receive the better off you'll be. You are. And we'll see if you get filled. If you don't get filled, you'll move it down. Okay. Okay, hit confirm and send and send one time. Okay. So now that we've looked at buying the wings and I WM to save ourselves $1,000 or save ourselves $2,000 here. Let's get filled in that I WM because that's the one that's going to save you the most amount of money. Oh, you're looking to close your IW. Is that 50%? Yeah. I weigh our 25. Okay. So you want to hit the bid by the offer. By the offer. Yep. Hit the bid is what we did on selling. Hit the biz what we typically do if we're selling something. Yeah. That was good. And your buying power should have been reduced. Oh, that's because we're still working. Yeah, we have the working order. We're working the order and it's using that buying power until the order gets filled. Okay. Good, good. Okay. We have about three minutes, two and a half minutes left. Do you want to look at GLD or UWC? Yeah, it's going to GLD. We don't have anything in there. Okay. You had a bullish position on in GLD previously. It took that off for a small diagonal. No, it was right around. I mean, when I originally put it on, it was right around the 120 mark. So you want a charter GLD just for those who don't know what it's been doing lately. Okay. So it's been going sideways on. It's about a little bit over the last two weeks or so. But sideways since then, I've even ranked really low at 7%. What do you want to do? I was just looking at like a long call spread. Were you looking for it in November or you looking at it in December? You could really do it in either one. You're kind of right in the middle of that. That's right. I would say December just give us a little more time on it. Okay, great. Which one you're looking at? I mean, we usually go one or two strikes in the money. One or two strikes out of the money. So what's the 19.22? Yeah. Buck 50 or something. Let's take a look. You could go one, if you want to go one half, the width of the strikes maybe go up to, let's see what the, well, that's it. That's three dollars. Yeah. That's it. You're paying a dollar 50 or whatever, a dollar 47, half the width of the strikes. That's your 50-50 shot if you want to make it in gold to the upside. Yeah, I mean, we've got a little bit of extrinsic value there. Not much. We should. Yes. It's a 50-50 shot. Let's not carry code in it better than that. Cool. Okay. You send the order if you want to send the order. All right. Beautiful. Good job out of you. Listen, you got the market moving. You know, the Dow was up over 100 today. I was going to tell you to go in a, yeah, I couldn't go lower because that mark was a little bit wider, but that's good. Yeah. And you're down 38 bucks. Not so bad. Yeah. Okay. Listen, the market's down, going in your direction. You made a couple hundred bucks. The market doesn't go in your direction. You know, you're down under 50 bucks. That's pretty cool. Yeah. All right. Who comes up next? Yeah, Tim Knight next. Good job, Eddie. So I'm just from Love.
